116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3504


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 24, 2019

                                Received

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To amend title 38, United States Code, to provide for improvements to 
   the specially adapted housing program and educational assistance 
programs of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Ryan Kules Specially Adaptive 
Housing Improvement Act of 2019''.

SEC. 2. PRIORITY IN AWARD OF SPECIALLY ADAPTED HOUSING GRANTS TO 
              SERIOUSLY ILL VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Section 2101 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Priority for Seriously Ill Veterans.--(1) In providing 
assistance under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to 
seriously ill veterans.
    ``(2) In this section, the term `seriously ill veteran' shall have 
the meaning given such term by the Secretary.''.
    (b) Definition of Seriously Ill Veteran.--
            (1) In general.--By not later than 90 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        shall--
                    (A) determine the meaning of the term ``seriously 
                ill veteran'' for purposes of subsection (d) of section 
                2101 of title 38, United States Code, as added by 
                subsection (a); and
                    (B) submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs 
                of the Senate and House of Representatives the meaning 
                of such term as so determined.
            (2) Applicability.--The definition of ``seriously ill 
        veteran'' as determined under paragraph (1) shall apply for 
        purposes of such subsection (d) beginning on the date that is 
        30 days after the date on which the Secretary submits to the 
        Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of 
        Representatives the definition of such term as so determined.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on October 1, 2020, and apply with respect to assistance 
provided on or after that date.

SEC. 3. INCREASE IN AMOUNTS OF ASSISTANCE PROVIDED.

    (a) Increase of Number of Grants Per Veteran.--Section 2102(d)(3) 
of such title is amended by striking ``three'' and inserting ``six''.
    (b) Increase in Number of Applications Authorized To Be Approved.--
Section 2101(a)(4) of such title is amended by striking ``30 
applications'' and inserting ``120 applications''.
    (c) Increase in Maximum Amount of Assistance for Adaptation to 
Veteran's Residence.--Section 2102(b)(2) of such title is amended by 
striking ``$12,000'' and inserting ``$19,733''.
    (d) Increase in Aggregate Amount of Assistance for Acquisition of 
Housing With Special Features.--Section 2102(d)(1) of such title is 
amended by striking ``$63,780'' and inserting ``$98,492''.
    (e) Increase in Aggregate Amount of Assistance for Adaptations to 
Veterans' Residences.--Section 2102(d)(2) of such title is amended by 
striking ``$12,756'' and inserting ``$19,733''.
    (f) Effective Date and Application.--The amendments made by this 
section shall take effect on October 1, 2020. The amendments made by 
subsections (c) and (d) shall apply with respect to individuals who 
have not received the maximum amount of assistance under section 2101 
of title 38, United States Code, before such date.

SEC. 4. PROVISION OF ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS OF SPECIALLY ADAPTED HOUSING 
              ASSISTANCE FOR CERTAIN VETERANS.

    Section 2102 of such title is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(f)(1) Notwithstanding the aggregate amounts specified in 
subsection (d), a covered veteran may apply for and receive an 
additional amount of assistance under subsection (a) or (b) of section 
2101 of this title in an amount that does not exceed half of the amount 
specified in subsection (d).
    ``(2) In this subsection, a covered veteran is a veteran who--
            ``(A) is described in section 2101(a)(2) of this title;
            ``(B) first receives assistance under this chapter on or 
        after October 1, 2020;
            ``(C) as of the date of the veteran's application for 
        assistance under paragraph (1), most recently received 
        assistance under this chapter more than 10 years before such 
        date; and
            ``(D) lives in a home that the Secretary determines does 
        not have adaptations that are reasonably necessary because of 
        the veteran's disability.''.

SEC. 5. IMPROVEMENT TO WORK-STUDY ALLOWANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Payment of Allowance.--Subsection (a) of section 3485 of title 
38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Individuals'' and 
        inserting ``In accordance with paragraph (4), individuals'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), and (6) as 
        paragraphs (5), (6), and (7), respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph:
    ``(4)(A) The Secretary shall carry out this section by providing to 
educational institutions an annual amount for the institution to use in 
paying work-study allowance under paragraph (1) to individuals enrolled 
at the institution.
    ``(B) With respect to an educational institution that participated 
in the work-study program under this section during the academic year 
beginning August 1, 2018, the Secretary shall determine the annual 
amount to provide to the educational institution under subparagraph (A) 
as follows:
            ``(i) For the academic year beginning August 1, 2020, the 
        amount shall be the total amount the Secretary paid under this 
        section to individuals enrolled at such educational institution 
        during the academic year beginning August 1, 2018.
            ``(ii) Except as provided by subparagraph (D)(ii), for each 
        academic year beginning on or after August 1, 2021, the amount 
        shall be the total amount the educational institution paid 
        under this section for work-study allowance to individuals 
        enrolled at such educational institution during the previous 
        academic year in which individuals participated in the work-
        study program.
    ``(C) With respect to an educational institution that did not 
participate in the work-study program under this section during the 
academic year beginning August 1, 2018, the Secretary shall determine 
the annual amount to provide to the educational institution under 
subparagraph (A) as follows:
            ``(i) For the first academic year in which the educational 
        institution participates in the work-study program beginning on 
        or after August 1, 2020, the amount shall be an amount the 
        Secretary determines appropriate based on amounts provided to 
        similar educational institutions pursuant to subparagraph (B).
            ``(ii) Except as provided by subparagraph (D)(ii), for each 
        academic year occurring after the academic year specified in 
        clause (i), the amount shall be the total amount the 
        educational institution paid under this section for work-study 
        allowance to individuals enrolled at such educational 
        institution during the previous academic year in which 
        individuals enrolled at such educational institution 
        participated in the work-study program.
    ``(D)(i) Except as provided in clause (ii), if the Secretary 
provides an annual amount to an educational institution under 
subparagraph (B) or (C) that is more than the total amount the 
educational institution pays to individuals under paragraph (1), the 
educational institution shall return to the Secretary the unpaid amount 
and the Secretary shall transfer such amount into the general fund of 
the Treasury.
    ``(ii) If the annual amount provided to an educational institution 
under subparagraph (B) or (C) is more, but less than 25 percent more, 
than the total amount the educational institution pays to individuals 
under paragraph (1), and the educational institution plans to 
participate in the work-study program under this section during the 
subsequent academic year, the educational institution may retain the 
amount of the overpayment if the educational institution notifies the 
Secretary of the amount of the overpayment and the intention of the 
educational institution to retain such amount. Any amount retained by 
an educational institution under this clause may only be used by the 
educational institution to provide work-study allowance to individuals 
enrolled at the educational institution.
    ``(iii) At any time an educational institution may request the 
Secretary to increase the annual amount that the Secretary provides the 
educational institution under subparagraph (B) or (C).
    ``(E) Pursuant to section 3690(c), section 3693, and other 
provisions of chapter 36 of this title, the Secretary shall ensure that 
educational institutions carry out the work-study allowance program in 
compliance with this section.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (e)(1) of such section is 
amended by striking ``subsection (a)(4)'' and inserting ``subsection 
(a)(5)''.
    (c) Application.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
with respect to a quarter, semester, or term, as applicable, commencing 
on or after August 1, 2020.

SEC. 6. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR FRY SCHOLARSHIP TO CHILDREN AND 
              SPOUSES OF CERTAIN DECEASED MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (b) of section 3311 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (10) as paragraph (12); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (9) the following new 
        paragraphs (10) and (11):
            ``(10) An individual who is the child or spouse of a person 
        who, on or after September 11, 2001, dies in line of duty while 
        serving on duty other than active duty as a member of the Armed 
        Forces.
            ``(11) An individual who is the child or spouse of a member 
        of the Selected Reserve who dies on or after September 11, 
        2001--
                    ``(A) from a service-connected disability; and
                    ``(B) not later than 4 years after the date of the 
                last discharge or release of that member from active 
                duty or active duty for training.''.
    (b) Applicability Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) 
apply with respect to a quarter, semester, or term, as applicable, 
commencing on or after August 1, 2020.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Subsection (f) of such section is amended by striking 
        ``paragraph (9)'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``paragraphs (9), (10), and (11)''.
            (2) Section 3322 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (e), by striking both ``sections 
                3311(b)(9) and 3319'' and inserting ``section 3319 and 
                paragraph (9), (10), or (11) of section 3311 of this 
                title'';
                    (B) in subsection (f), by striking ``section 
                3311(b)(9)'' and inserting ``paragraph (9), (10), or 
                (11) of section 3311 of this title''; and
                    (C) in subsection (h)(2), by striking ``either 
                section 3311(b)(9) or chapter 35'' and inserting 
                ``either chapter 35 or paragraph (9), (10), or (11) of 
                section 3311''.

SEC. 7. TREATMENT OF CERTAIN PREPARATORY COURSES AS PROGRAMS OF 
              EDUCATION FOR PURPOSES OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS 
              EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 33 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 3315A the following new section:
``Sec. 3315B. Preparatory courses for licensure, certification, or 
              national tests
    ``(a) In General.--An individual entitled to educational assistance 
under this chapter shall also be entitled to payment for a preparatory 
course for a licensing or certification test that is required or used 
to enter into, maintain, or advance in employment in a predetermined 
and identified vocation or profession.
    ``(b) Amount.--The amount of educational assistance payable under 
this chapter for a course described in subsection (a) is the lesser 
of--
            ``(1) the fee charged for the course; or
            ``(2) the amount of entitlement available to the individual 
        under this chapter at the time of payment for the course under 
        this section.
    ``(c) Charge Against Entitlement.--The number of months of 
entitlement charged an individual under this chapter for a course 
described in subsection (a) shall be pro-rated based on the actual 
amount of the fee charged for the course relative to the rate for 1 
month payable--
            ``(1) for the academic year beginning on August 1, 2020, 
        $1,460; or
            ``(2) for an academic year beginning on any subsequent 
        August 1, the amount for the previous academic year beginning 
        on August 1 under this subsection, as increased by the 
        percentage increase equal to the most recent percentage 
        increase determined under section 3015(h).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
3315A the following new item:

``3315B. Preparatory courses for licensure, certification, or national 
                            tests.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Section 3532(g) of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or a preparatory 
        course described in section 3315B(a) of this title'' after ``or 
        national test providing an opportunity for course credit at 
        institutions of higher learning described in section 3501(a)(5) 
        of this title''; and
            (2) in paragraphs (2) and (3), by inserting ``or 
        preparatory course'' after ``test'' everywhere it appears.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to months beginning after the date of the enactment 
of this Act.

SEC. 8. ADJUSTMENT OF LOAN FEES.

    Section 3729(b)(2) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking the loan fee table and inserting the following:


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       Active duty
                  ``Type of loan                         veteran             Reservist          Other  obligor
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(A)(i) Initial loan described in section 3710(a)   2.15                 2.40                 NA
 to purchase or construct a dwelling with 0-down,
 or any other initial loan described in section
 3710(a) other than with 5-down or 10-down
 (closed on or after October 1, 2004, and before
 January 1, 2020)
(A)(ii) Initial loan described in section 3710(a)  2.30                 2.30                 NA
 to purchase or construct a dwelling with 0-down,
 or any other initial loan described in section
 3710(a) other than with 5-down or 10-down
 (closed on or after January 1, 2020, and before
 October 1, 2027)
(A)(iii) Initial loan described in section         2.15                 2.15                 NA
 3710(a) to purchase or construct a dwelling with
 0-down, or any other initial loan described in
 section 3710(a) other than with 5-down or 10-
 down (closed on or after October 1, 2027, and
 before October 1, 2029)
(A)(iv) Initial loan described in section 3710(a)  1.40                 1.40                 NA
 to purchase or construct a dwelling with 0-down,
 or any other initial loan described in section
 3710(a) other than with 5-down or 10-down
 (closed on or after October 1, 2029)
(B)(i) Subsequent loan described in section        3.30                 3.30                 NA
 3710(a) to purchase or construct a dwelling with
 0-down, or any other subsequent loan described
 in section 3710(a) (closed on or after October
 1, 2004, and before January 1, 2020)
(B)(ii) Subsequent loan described in section       3.60                 3.60                 NA
 3710(a) to purchase or construct a dwelling with
 0-down, or any other subsequent loan described
 in section 3710(a) (closed on or after January
 1, 2020, and before October 1, 2027)
(B)(iii) Subsequent loan described in section      3.30                 3.30                 NA
 3710(a) to purchase or construct a dwelling with
 0-down, or any other subsequent loan described
 in section 3710(a) (closed on or after October
 1, 2027, and before October 1, 2029)
(B)(iv) Subsequent loan described in section       1.25                 1.25                 NA
 3710(a) to purchase or construct a dwelling with
 0-down, or any other subsequent loan described
 in section 3710(a) (closed on or after October
 1, 2029)
(C)(i) Loan described in section 3710(a) to        1.50                 1.75                 NA
 purchase or construct a dwelling with 5-down
 (closed before January 1, 2020)
(C)(ii) Loan described in section 3710(a) to       1.65                 1.65                 NA
 purchase or construct a dwelling with 5-down
 (closed on or after January 1, 2020, and before
 October 1, 2027)
(C)(iii) Loan described in section 3710(a) to      1.50                 1.50                 NA
 purchase or construct a dwelling with 5-down
 (closed on or after October 1, 2027, and before
 October 1, 2029)
(C)(iv) Loan described in section 3710(a) to       0.75                 0.75                 NA
 purchase or construct a dwelling with 5-down
 (closed on or after October 1, 2029)
(D)(i) Loan described in section 3710(a) to        1.25                 1.50                 NA
 purchase or construct a dwelling with 10-down
 (closed before January 1, 2020)
(D)(ii) Loan described in section 3710(a) to       1.40                 1.40                 NA
 purchase or construct a dwelling with 10-down
 (closed on or after January 1, 2020, and before
 October 1, 2027)
(D)(iii) Loan described in section 3710(a) to      1.25                 1.25                 NA
 purchase or construct a dwelling with 10-down
 (closed on or after October 1, 2027, and before
 October 1, 2029)
(D)(iv) Loan described in section 3710(a) to       0.50                 0.50                 NA
 purchase or construct a dwelling with 10-down
 (closed on or after October 1, 2029)
(E) Interest rate reduction refinancing loan       0.50                 0.50                 NA
(F) Direct loan under section 3711                 1.00                 1.00                 NA
(G) Manufactured home loan under section 3712      1.00                 1.00                 NA
 (other than an interest rate reduction
 refinancing loan)
(H) Loan to Native American veteran under section  1.25                 1.25                 NA
 3762 (other than an interest rate reduction
 refinancing loan)
(I) Loan assumption under section 3714             0.50                 0.50                 0.50
(J) Loan under section 3733(a)                     2.25                 2.25                 2.25''.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 9. AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO ASSIST BLIND 
              VETERANS WHO HAVE NOT LOST USE OF A LEG IN ACQUIRING 
              SPECIALLY ADAPTED HOUSING.

    Section 2101 of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(2)(B)(ii)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subclause (I), by 
                striking ``due to--'' and inserting ``due to blindness 
                in both eyes, having central visual acuity of 20/200 or 
                less in the better eye with the use of a standard 
                correcting lens. For the purposes of this clause, an 
                eye with a limitation in the fields of vision such that 
                the widest diameter of the visual field subtends an 
                angle no greater than 20 degrees shall be considered as 
                having a central visual acuity of 20/200 or less.''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking subclauses (I) and (II); and
            (2) in subsection (b)(2)--
                    (A) by striking subparagraph (A); and
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and (C) as 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively.

SEC. 10. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that 
such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.

            Passed the House of Representatives July 23, 2019.

            Attest:

                                             CHERYL L. JOHNSON,

                                                                 Clerk.
