116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1952

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To amend the Intercountry Adoption Act of 2000 to require the Secretary 
of State to report on intercountry adoptions from countries which have 
   significantly reduced adoption rates involving immigration to the 
                 United States, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Intercountry Adoption Information 
Act of 2019''.

SEC. 2. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN ANNUAL REPORT ON 
              INTERCOUNTRY ADOPTIONS.

    (a) Report Elements.--Section 104(b) of the Intercountry Adoption 
Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 14914(b)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraphs:
            ``(9) A list of countries that established or maintained a 
        significant law or regulation that prevented or prohibited 
        adoptions involving immigration to the United States, 
        regardless of whether such adoptions occurred under the 
        Convention.
            ``(10) For each country listed under paragraph (9), the 
        date on which the law or regulation was initially implemented.
            ``(11) Information on efforts taken with respect to a 
        country listed under paragraph (9) to encourage the resumption 
        of halted or stalled adoption proceedings involving immigration 
        to the United States, regardless of whether the adoptions would 
        have occurred under the Convention.
            ``(12) Information on any action the Secretary carried out 
        that prevented, prohibited, or halted any adoptions involving 
        immigration to the United States, regardless of whether the 
        adoptions occurred under the Convention.
            ``(13) For each country listed pursuant to paragraph (12), 
        a description of--
                    ``(A) what policies, procedures, resources, and 
                safeguards the country lacks, or other shortcomings or 
                circumstances, that caused the action to be carried 
                out;
                    ``(B) what progress the country has made to 
                alleviate those shortcomings; and
                    ``(C) what steps the Department of State has taken 
                in order to assist the country to reopen intercountry 
                adoptions.
            ``(14) An assessment of the impact of the fee schedule of 
        the Intercountry Adoption Accreditation and Maintenance Entity 
        on families seeking to adopt internationally, especially low-
        income families, families seeking to adopt sibling groups, or 
        families seeking to adopt children with disabilities.''.
    (b) Public Availability of Report.--Section 104 of the Intercountry 
Adoption Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 14914) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Public Availability of Report.--The Secretary shall make the 
information contained in the report required under subsection (a) 
available to the public on the website of the Department of State.''.
    (c) Privacy Concerns.--In complying with the amendments made by 
subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary shall avoid, to the maximum 
extent practicable, disclosing any personally identifiable information 
relating to United States citizens or the adoptees of such citizens.
    (d) Conforming Amendment.--Section 104(a) of the Intercountry 
Adoption Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 14914(a)) is amended by striking 
``International Relations'' and inserting ``Foreign Affairs''.
    (e) Application Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply with respect to reports required to be submitted under section 
104 of the Intercountry Adoption Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 14914) 
beginning on the date that is 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act.

            Passed the House of Representatives May 20, 2019.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
116th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 1952

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

To amend the Intercountry Adoption Act of 2000 to require the Secretary 
of State to report on intercountry adoptions from countries which have 
   significantly reduced adoption rates involving immigration to the 
                 United States, and for other purposes.
