116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2476

To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to provide funding to secure 
  nonprofit facilities from terrorist attacks, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 2, 2019

 Mr. Thompson of Mississippi (for himself, Mr. Payne, Mr. King of New 
 York, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Rose of New York, Mr. Balderson, 
Mr. Cohen, Ms. Moore, Ms. Norton, Mr. Rush, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. 
    Green of Texas, Ms. Speier, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Tonko, Mr. 
Espaillat, Ms. Titus, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. Bass, Ms. Schakowsky, 
 Ms. Slotkin, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. Langevin, Mr. 
   Pallone, Mr. Welch, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Hastings, Mr. 
  Raskin, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Houlahan, Ms. 
Velazquez, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Michael F. 
   Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Engel, Mrs. Demings, Mr. Norcross, Mr. 
   Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. 
 Evans, Mrs. Dingell, Mrs. Beatty, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Turner, 
  Mr. Correa, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Ms. Meng, Ms. 
  Barragan, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Cooper, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. 
Gottheimer, Ms. Stevens, Mr. Ryan, Mr. Cisneros, Mr. Gonzalez of Ohio, 
Mr. Hurd of Texas, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Gabbard, Ms. Underwood, Mr. Lamb, 
 Mr. Peters, Mr. Harder of California, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Smith of New 
 Jersey, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. Frankel, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Bera, Ms. Torres 
Small of New Mexico, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Himes, Mrs. Axne, 
 Mr. McCaul, Mr. Bacon, Miss Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico, Ms. Fudge, 
Mr. Schneider, Ms. Haaland, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Dean, Mr. Wenstrup, Mr. 
  Courtney, and Mr. Chabot) introduced the following bill; which was 
             referred to the Committee on Homeland Security

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to provide funding to secure 
  nonprofit facilities from terrorist attacks, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Securing American Nonprofit 
Organizations Against Terrorism Act of 2019''.

SEC. 2. NONPROFIT SECURITY GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title XX of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:

``SEC. 2009. NONPROFIT SECURITY GRANT PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established in the Department a 
program to be known as the `Nonprofit Security Grant Program' (in this 
section referred to as the `Program'). Under the Program, the 
Secretary, acting through the Administrator, shall make grants to 
eligible nonprofit organizations described in subsection (b), through 
the State in which such organizations are located, for target hardening 
and other security enhancements to protect against terrorist attacks.
    ``(b) Eligible Recipients.--Eligible nonprofit organizations 
described in this subsection (a) are organizations that are--
            ``(1) described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) 
        of such Code; and
            ``(2) determined to be at risk of a terrorist attack by the 
        Administrator.
    ``(c) Permitted Uses.--The recipient of a grant under this section 
may use such grant for any of the following uses:
            ``(1) Target hardening activities, including physical 
        security enhancement equipment and inspection and screening 
        systems.
            ``(2) Fees for security training relating to physical 
        security and cybersecurity, target hardening, terrorism 
        awareness, and employee awareness.
            ``(3) Any other appropriate activity, including 
        cybersecurity resilience activities, as determined by the 
        Administrator.
    ``(d) Period of Performance.--The Administrator shall make funds 
provided under this section available for use by a recipient of a grant 
for a period of not less than 36 months.
    ``(e) Report.--The Administrator shall annually for each of fiscal 
years 2020 through 2024 submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report containing information on 
the expenditure by each grant recipient of grant funds made under this 
section.
    ``(f) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated 
        $75,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024 to carry 
        out this section.
            ``(2) Specification.--Of the amounts authorized to be 
        appropriated pursuant to paragraph (1)--
                    ``(A) $50,000,000 is authorized for eligible 
                recipients located in jurisdictions that receive 
                funding under section 2003; and
                    ``(B) $25,000,000 is authorized for eligible 
                recipients in jurisdictions not receiving funding under 
                section 2003.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (a) of section 2002 of the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 603) is amended by striking 
``sections 2003 and 2004'' and inserting ``sections 2003, 2004, and 
2009''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the 
item relating to section 2008 the following new item:

``Sec. 2009. Nonprofit security grant program.''
                                 