116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1865

      To require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint a coin in 
commemoration of the opening of the National Law Enforcement Museum in 
           the District of Columbia, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 25, 2019

 Mr. Pascrell (for himself, Mr. Rutherford, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Ryan, Mr. 
   O'Halleran, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
Kilmer, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. King of 
New York, Mr. Norman, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. Cook, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. 
Bacon, Mr. Sires, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. 
Suozzi, Mr. Olson, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. Norcross, Mr. Lipinski, 
Mr. Kinzinger, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mrs. 
     Demings, Mr. Takano, Mr. Costa, Mr. Garamendi, Mrs. Torres of 
  California, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Gaetz, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Collins of New 
York, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mr. Katko, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, 
Mr. Hice of Georgia, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Mitchell, Mrs. Lowey, Ms. Kuster 
  of New Hampshire, Mrs. Murphy, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Kind, Mr. 
 Engel, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. Bost, Mr. Peters, 
Mr. Vela, Mr. Gianforte, Mr. Young, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Joyce of 
  Ohio, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Calvert, Mr. Thompson of California, Miss 
 Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, 
  Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Foster, Mr. Himes, Mr. 
 Yoho, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. 
Welch, Mr. Bera, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, Mr. Comer, Mr. Espaillat, 
 Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Posey, Mr. Latta, Mr. Cole, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Quigley, 
    Mr. Soto, Mr. Stewart, Mr. Mast, Mr. McEachin, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. 
 Guthrie, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Sablan, Miss Rice of New York, Ms. Matsui, 
 Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. Smith of Missouri, Mr. Nunes, Mrs. Watson 
 Coleman, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Van Drew, Mr. San 
   Nicolas, Mrs. Kirkpatrick, Ms. Hill of California, Mrs. Axne, Mr. 
 Spano, Mr. Guest, Mr. Cisneros, Mr. Brindisi, Ms. Torres Small of New 
   Mexico, Mrs. Miller, and Mr. Harder of California) introduced the 
   following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Financial 
                                Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
      To require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint a coin in 
commemoration of the opening of the National Law Enforcement Museum in 
           the District of Columbia, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Law Enforcement Museum 
Commemorative Coin Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) In 2000, Congress passed and President William J. 
        Clinton signed into law the National Law Enforcement Museum Act 
        (Public Law 106-492), which authorized the National Law 
        Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund, Inc., to build the National 
        Law Enforcement Museum on Federal land in the District of 
        Columbia to honor and commemorate the service and sacrifice of 
        law enforcement officers in the United States.
            (2) In April 2016, construction began on the National Law 
        Enforcement Museum in the District of Columbia across the 
        street from the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial in 
        Judiciary Square.
            (3) The National Law Enforcement Museum formally opened in 
        October of 2018.
            (4) The National Law Enforcement Museum's mission is--
                    (A) to honor and commemorate the extraordinary 
                service and sacrifice of America's law enforcement 
                officers;
                    (B) to serve as an important bridge between law 
                enforcement's past and present, between the heroes of 
                yesteryear and those who have followed in their 
                footsteps, and between America's peace officers and the 
                public they serve;
                    (C) increase public understanding and support for 
                law enforcement and to promote law enforcement safety; 
                and
                    (D) strengthen the relationship between law 
                enforcement and the communities they serve with 
                thought-provoking programs at the Museum and around the 
                country that promote dialogue on topics of current 
                interest.

SEC. 3. COIN SPECIFICATIONS.

    (a) Denominations.--The Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in 
this Act referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall mint and issue the 
following coin:
            (1) $5 gold coins.--Not more than 50,000 $5 coins, which 
        shall--
                    (A) weigh 8.359 grams;
                    (B) have a diameter of 0.850 inches; and
                    (C) contain not less than 90 percent gold.
            (2) $1 silver coins.--Not more than 400,000 $1 coins, which 
        shall--
                    (A) weigh 26.73 grams;
                    (B) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
                    (C) contain not less than 90 percent silver.
            (3) Half-dollar clad coins.--Not more than 750,000 half-
        dollar coins which shall--
                    (A) weigh 11.34 grams;
                    (B) have a diameter of 1.205 inches; and
                    (C) be minted to the specifications for half-dollar 
                coins contained in section 5112(b) of title 31, United 
                States Code.
    (b) Legal Tender.--The coins minted under this Act shall be legal 
tender, as provided in section 5103 of title 31, United States Code.
    (c) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of section 5134 of title 31, 
United States Code, all coins minted under this Act shall be considered 
to be numismatic items.

SEC. 4. DESIGN OF COINS.

    (a) Design Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--The design of the coins minted under this 
        Act shall be emblematic of the National Law Enforcement Museum 
        and the service and sacrifice of law enforcement officers 
        throughout the history of the United States.
            (2) Designation and inscriptions.--On each coin minted 
        under this Act there shall be--
                    (A) a designation of the value of the coin;
                    (B) an inscription of the year ``2021''; and
                    (C) inscriptions of the words ``Liberty'', ``In God 
                We Trust'', ``United States of America'', and ``E 
                Pluribus Unum''.
    (b) Selection.--The design for the coins minted under this Act 
shall be--
            (1) selected by the Secretary after consultation with the 
        Commission of Fine Arts and the National Law Enforcement 
        Officers Memorial Fund, Inc.; and
            (2) reviewed by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee.

SEC. 5. ISSUANCE OF COINS.

    (a) Quality of Coins.--Coins minted under this Act shall be issued 
in uncirculated and proof qualities.
    (b) Mint Facilities.--Only 1 facility of the United States Mint may 
be used to strike any particular quality of the coins minted under this 
Act.
    (c) Period for Issuance.--The Secretary may issue coins minted 
under this Act only during the 1-year period beginning on January 1, 
2021.

SEC. 6. SALE OF COINS.

    (a) Sale Price.--The coins issued under this Act shall be sold by 
the Secretary at a price equal to the sum of--
            (1) the face value of the coins;
            (2) the surcharge provided in section 7(a) with respect to 
        such coins; and
            (3) the cost of designing and issuing the coins (including 
        labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses, 
        marketing, and shipping).
    (b) Bulk Sales.--The Secretary shall make bulk sales of the coins 
issued under this Act at a reasonable discount.
    (c) Prepaid Orders.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall accept prepaid orders 
        for the coins minted under this Act before the issuance of such 
        coins.
            (2) Discount.--Sale prices with respect to prepaid orders 
        under paragraph (1) shall be at a reasonable discount.

SEC. 7. SURCHARGES.

    (a) In General.--All sales of coins issued under this Act shall 
include a surcharge of--
            (1) $35 per coin for the $5 coin;
            (2) $10 per coin for the $1 coin; and
            (3) $5 per coin for the half-dollar coin.
    (b) Distribution.--Subject to section 5134(f)(1) of title 31, 
United States Code, all surcharges received by the Secretary from the 
sale of coins issued under this Act shall be promptly paid by the 
Secretary to the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund, Inc., 
for educational and outreach programs and exhibits.
    (c) Audits.--The National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund, 
Inc., shall be subject to the audit requirements of section 5134(f)(2) 
of title 31, United States Code, with regard to the amounts received 
under subsection (b).
    (d) Limitation.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), no surcharge may 
be included with respect to the issuance under this Act of any coin 
during a calendar year if, as of the time of such issuance, the 
issuance of such coin would result in the number of commemorative coin 
programs issued during such year to exceed the annual 2 commemorative 
coin program issuance limitation under section 5112(m)(1) of title 31, 
United States Code (as in effect on the date of the enactment of this 
Act). The Secretary of the Treasury may issue guidance to carry out 
this subsection.
                                 