116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 886

  To direct the Attorney General to establish and carry out a Veteran 
                        Treatment Court Program.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 30, 2019

  Mr. Crist (for himself, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. Allred, Mr. 
  Baird, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mr. Brown of 
 Maryland, Mr. Calvert, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. Castor of Florida, 
 Mr. Cisneros, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Cook, Mr. Crow, Mr. Rodney 
   Davis of Illinois, Mr. DeFazio, Mrs. Demings, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. 
    Deutch, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Frankel, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Gaetz, Miss 
Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
Harder of California, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Heck, Mr. Hice of Georgia, Mr. 
Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. Higgins of New York, Ms. Hill of California, 
   Ms. Norton, Ms. Houlahan, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Jones, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. 
      Keating, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Kind, Mr. 
Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Lowenthal, Mrs. 
Luria, Mr. Mast, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Moore, Mr. Moulton, Mrs. Murphy, Mr. 
   Newhouse, Mr. Norman, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Payne, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. 
 Peterson, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Posey, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Riggleman, Mr. Rose 
 of New York, Mr. Rouda, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Rush, Mr. Rutherford, 
   Mr. Ryan, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. Serrano, Ms. 
Sewell of Alabama, Ms. Sherrill, Ms. Slotkin, Mr. Smith of Washington, 
 Mr. Soto, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. Turner, Mr. Upton, Mr. Vela, Ms. Velazquez, 
Mr. Walden, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Waltz, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Ms. Wilson 
 of Florida, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Smucker, Mr. Diaz-Balart, Mr. Dunn, Ms. 
 Shalala, and Ms. Kendra S. Horn of Oklahoma) introduced the following 
       bill; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To direct the Attorney General to establish and carry out a Veteran 
                        Treatment Court Program.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Veteran Treatment Court Coordination 
Act of 2019''.

SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that veterans treatment courts are a 
successful program aimed at helping veterans charged with non-violent 
crimes receive the help and the benefits for which the veterans are 
entitled.

SEC. 3. VETERAN TREATMENT COURT PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--Subject to the availability of appropriations, 
in coordination with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Attorney 
General shall establish and carry out a Veteran Treatment Court Program 
to provide grants and technical assistance to the State circuit court 
systems that--
            (1) have adopted a Veterans Treatment Court Program; or
            (2) have filed a notice of intent to establish a Veterans 
        Treatment Court Program with the Secretary.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Veterans Treatment Court Program 
established under subsection (a) is to ensure the Department of Justice 
has a single office to coordinate the provision of grants, training, 
and technical assistance to help State, local, and Tribal governments 
to develop and maintain veteran treatment courts.
    (c) Programs Included.--The Veterans Treatment Court Program 
established under subsection (a) shall include the grant programs 
relating to veterans treatment courts carried out by the Attorney 
General pursuant to sections 2901, 2991, and 3021 of the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10581, 10651, and 
10701) or any other provision of law.
    (d) Regulations.--The Attorney General shall promulgate regulations 
to carry out this section.
                                 