116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3055

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  Making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce and Justice, 
Science, and Related Agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
                     2020, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Commerce, Justice, Science, 
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, Interior, 
Environment, Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, Transportation, 
and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act, 2020''.

     DIVISION A--COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES 
                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020

     The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2020, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   International Trade Administration

                     operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for international trade activities of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, to carry out activities 
associated with facilitating, attracting, and retaining business 
investment in the United States, and for engaging in trade promotional 
activities abroad, including expenses of grants and cooperative 
agreements for the purpose of promoting exports of United States firms, 
without regard to sections 3702 and 3703 of title 44, United States 
Code; full medical coverage for dependent members of immediate families 
of employees stationed overseas and employees temporarily posted 
overseas; travel and transportation of employees of the International 
Trade Administration between two points abroad, without regard to 
section 40118 of title 49, United States Code; employment of citizens 
of the United States and aliens by contract for services; rental of 
space abroad for periods not exceeding 10 years, and expenses of 
alteration, repair, or improvement; purchase or construction of 
temporary demountable exhibition structures for use abroad; payment of 
tort claims, in the manner authorized in the first paragraph of section 
2672 of title 28, United States Code, when such claims arise in foreign 
countries; not to exceed $294,300 for official representation expenses 
abroad; purchase of passenger motor vehicles for official use abroad, 
not to exceed $45,000 per vehicle; obtaining insurance on official 
motor vehicles; and rental of tie lines, $530,000,000 (reduced by 
$2,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000) 
(reduced by $3,000,000) (increased by $3,000,000), to remain available 
until September 30, 2021, of which $11,000,000 is to be derived from 
fees to be retained and used by the International Trade Administration, 
notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, United States Code:  
Provided, That, of amounts provided under this heading, not less than 
$16,400,000 shall be for China antidumping and countervailing duty 
enforcement and compliance activities:  Provided further, That the 
provisions of the first sentence of section 105(f) and all of section 
108(c) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 
U.S.C. 2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these 
activities; and that for the purpose of this Act, contributions under 
the provisions of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 
1961 shall include payment for assessments for services provided as 
part of these activities.

                    Bureau of Industry and Security

                     operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for export administration and national 
security activities of the Department of Commerce, including costs 
associated with the performance of export administration field 
activities both domestically and abroad; full medical coverage for 
dependent members of immediate families of employees stationed 
overseas; employment of citizens of the United States and aliens by 
contract for services abroad; payment of tort claims, in the manner 
authorized in the first paragraph of section 2672 of title 28, United 
States Code, when such claims arise in foreign countries; not to exceed 
$13,500 for official representation expenses abroad; awards of 
compensation to informers under the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 
(subtitle B of title XVII of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019; Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 
2208; 50 U.S.C. 4801 et seq.), and as authorized by section 1(b) of the 
Act of June 15, 1917 (40 Stat. 223; 22 U.S.C. 401(b)); and purchase of 
passenger motor vehicles for official use and motor vehicles for law 
enforcement use with special requirement vehicles eligible for purchase 
without regard to any price limitation otherwise established by law, 
$127,652,000 (increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000), to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That the provisions of the 
first sentence of section 105(f) and all of section 108(c) of the 
Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) 
and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these activities:  Provided 
further, That payments and contributions collected and accepted for 
materials or services provided as part of such activities may be 
retained for use in covering the cost of such activities, and for 
providing information to the public with respect to the export 
administration and national security activities of the Department of 
Commerce and other export control programs of the United States and 
other governments.

                  Economic Development Administration

                economic development assistance programs

    For grants for economic development assistance as provided by the 
Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, for trade adjustment 
assistance, and for grants authorized by sections 27 and 28 of the 
Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722 and 
3723), $498,350,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$30,000,000 shall be for grants under such section 27 and $5,000,000 
shall be for grants under such section 28.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of administering the economic development 
assistance programs as provided for by law, $41,650,000:  Provided, 
That these funds may be used to monitor projects approved pursuant to 
title I of the Public Works Employment Act of 1976, title II of the 
Trade Act of 1974, sections 27 and 28 of the Stevenson-Wydler 
Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722 and 3723), and the 
Community Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1977.

                  Minority Business Development Agency

                     minority business development

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Commerce in fostering, 
promoting, and developing minority business enterprise, including 
expenses of grants, contracts, and other agreements with public or 
private organizations, $44,000,000.

                   Economic and Statistical Analysis

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, of economic and 
statistical analysis programs of the Department of Commerce, 
$107,990,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021.

                          Bureau of the Census

                      current surveys and programs

    For necessary expenses for collecting, compiling, analyzing, 
preparing, and publishing statistics, provided for by law, 
$275,000,000:  Provided, That, from amounts provided herein, funds may 
be used for promotion, outreach, and marketing activities.

                     periodic censuses and programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for collecting, compiling, analyzing, 
preparing, and publishing statistics for periodic censuses and programs 
provided for by law, $675,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2022:  Provided, That, from amounts provided herein, funds may be 
used for promotion, outreach, and marketing activities:  Provided 
further, That within the amounts appropriated, $3,556,000 shall be 
transferred to the ``Office of Inspector General'' account for 
activities associated with carrying out investigations and audits 
related to the Bureau of the Census.
    In addition to the amounts provided under this heading for the 2020 
Census, $7,500,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022, 
is new budget authority for the 2020 Census as specified for the 
purposes of section 251(b)(2) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, and section 1(g)(1) of H. Res. 
293 of the 116th Congress.

       National Telecommunications and Information Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as provided for by law, of the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), $42,411,000 
(increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000), to remain available 
until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 
1535(d), the Secretary of Commerce shall charge Federal agencies for 
costs incurred in spectrum management, analysis, operations, and 
related services, and such fees shall be retained and used as 
offsetting collections for costs of such spectrum services, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Commerce is authorized to retain and use as offsetting collections all 
funds transferred, or previously transferred, from other Government 
agencies for all costs incurred in telecommunications research, 
engineering, and related activities by the Institute for 
Telecommunication Sciences of NTIA, in furtherance of its assigned 
functions under this paragraph, and such funds received from other 
Government agencies shall remain available until expended.

    public telecommunications facilities, planning and construction

    For the administration of prior-year grants, recoveries and 
unobligated balances of funds previously appropriated are available for 
the administration of all open grants until their expiration.

               United States Patent and Trademark Office

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the United States Patent and Trademark 
Office (USPTO) provided for by law, including defense of suits 
instituted against the Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual 
Property and Director of the USPTO, $3,450,681,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That the sum herein appropriated from the 
general fund shall be reduced as offsetting collections of fees and 
surcharges assessed and collected by the USPTO under any law are 
received during fiscal year 2020, so as to result in a fiscal year 2020 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at $0:  Provided further, 
That during fiscal year 2020, should the total amount of such 
offsetting collections be less than $3,450,681,000 this amount shall be 
reduced accordingly:  Provided further, That any amount received in 
excess of $3,450,681,000 in fiscal year 2020 and deposited in the 
Patent and Trademark Fee Reserve Fund shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided further, That the Director of USPTO shall submit a 
spending plan to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate for any amounts made available by the 
preceding proviso and such spending plan shall be treated as a 
reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available 
for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures 
set forth in that section:  Provided further, That any amounts 
reprogrammed in accordance with the preceding proviso shall be 
transferred to the United States Patent and Trademark Office ``Salaries 
and Expenses'' account:  Provided further, That from amounts provided 
herein, not to exceed $900 shall be made available in fiscal year 2020 
for official reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, 
That in fiscal year 2020 from the amounts made available for ``Salaries 
and Expenses'' for the USPTO, the amounts necessary to pay (1) the 
difference between the percentage of basic pay contributed by the USPTO 
and employees under section 8334(a) of title 5, United States Code, and 
the normal cost percentage (as defined by section 8331(17) of that 
title) as provided by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) for 
USPTO's specific use, of basic pay, of employees subject to subchapter 
III of chapter 83 of that title, and (2) the present value of the 
otherwise unfunded accruing costs, as determined by OPM for USPTO's 
specific use of post-retirement life insurance and post-retirement 
health benefits coverage for all USPTO employees who are enrolled in 
Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) and Federal Employees Group 
Life Insurance (FEGLI), shall be transferred to the Civil Service 
Retirement and Disability Fund, the FEGLI Fund, and the Employees FEHB 
Fund, as appropriate, and shall be available for the authorized 
purposes of those accounts:  Provided further, That any differences 
between the present value factors published in OPM's yearly 300 series 
benefit letters and the factors that OPM provides for USPTO's specific 
use shall be recognized as an imputed cost on USPTO's financial 
statements, where applicable:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, all fees and surcharges assessed and 
collected by USPTO are available for USPTO only pursuant to section 
42(c) of title 35, United States Code, as amended by section 22 of the 
Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (Public Law 112-29):  Provided further, 
That within the amounts appropriated, $1,500,000 shall be transferred 
to the ``Office of Inspector General'' account for activities 
associated with carrying out investigations and audits related to the 
USPTO.

             National Institute of Standards and Technology

             scientific and technical research and services

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (NIST), $751,000,000 (reduced by $4,000,000) (increased by 
$4,000,000), to remain available until expended, of which not to exceed 
$9,000,000 may be transferred to the ``Working Capital Fund'':  
Provided, That not to exceed $5,000 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses:  Provided further, That NIST may provide local 
transportation for summer undergraduate research fellowship program 
participants.

                     industrial technology services

    For necessary expenses for industrial technology services, 
$169,172,000, to remain available until expended, of which $154,000,000 
shall be for the Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership, and of 
which $15,172,000 shall be for the National Network for Manufacturing 
Innovation (also known as ``Manufacturing USA'').

                  construction of research facilities

    For construction of new research facilities, including 
architectural and engineering design, and for renovation and 
maintenance of existing facilities, not otherwise provided for the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology, as authorized by 
sections 13 through 15 of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278c-278e), $120,000,000 (increased by 
$120,000,000) (reduced by $120,000,000), to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That the Secretary of Commerce shall include in 
the budget justification materials that the Secretary submits to 
Congress in support of the Department of Commerce budget (as submitted 
with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
United States Code) an estimate for each National Institute of 
Standards and Technology construction project having a total multi-year 
program cost of more than $5,000,000, and simultaneously the budget 
justification materials shall include an estimate of the budgetary 
requirements for each such project for each of the 5 subsequent fiscal 
years.

            National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of activities authorized by law for the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, including maintenance, 
operation, and hire of aircraft and vessels; pilot programs for state-
led fisheries management, notwithstanding any other provision of law; 
grants, contracts, or other payments to nonprofit organizations for the 
purposes of conducting activities pursuant to cooperative agreements; 
and relocation of facilities, $3,920,625,000 (reduced by $3,600,000) 
(increased by $2,000,000) (reduced by $1,500,000) (increased by 
$1,500,000) (increased by $1,500,000), to remain available until 
September 30, 2021:  Provided, That fees and donations received by the 
National Ocean Service for the management of national marine 
sanctuaries may be retained and used for the salaries and expenses 
associated with those activities, notwithstanding section 3302 of title 
31, United States Code:  Provided further, That in addition, 
$177,782,000 shall be derived by transfer from the fund entitled 
``Promote and Develop Fishery Products and Research Pertaining to 
American Fisheries'', which shall only be used for the Fisheries 
Science and Management program activities:  Provided further, That of 
the $4,115,907,000 (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $1,500,000) 
provided for in direct obligations under this heading, $3,920,625,000 
(increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $1,500,000) is appropriated 
from the general fund, $177,782,000 is provided by transfer, and 
$17,500,000 is derived from recoveries of prior year obligations:  
Provided further, That any deviation from the amounts designated for 
specific activities in the report accompanying this Act, or any use of 
deobligated balances of funds provided under this heading in previous 
years, shall be subject to the procedures set forth in section 505 of 
this Act:  Provided further, That in addition, for necessary retired 
pay expenses under the Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and 
Survivor Benefits Plan, and for payments for the medical care of 
retired personnel and their dependents under the Dependents' Medical 
Care Act (10 U.S.C. ch. 55), such sums as may be necessary.

               procurement, acquisition, and construction

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For procurement, acquisition, and construction of capital assets, 
including alteration and modification costs, of the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, $1,496,000,000 (reduced by $9,000,000) 
(increased by $9,000,000), to remain available until September 30, 
2022, except that funds provided for acquisition and construction of 
vessels and construction of facilities shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That of the $1,509,000,000 provided for in direct 
obligations under this heading, $1,496,000,000 is appropriated from the 
general fund and $13,000,000 is provided from recoveries of prior year 
obligations:  Provided further, That any deviation from the amounts 
designated for specific activities in the report accompanying this Act, 
or any use of deobligated balances of funds provided under this heading 
in previous years, shall be subject to the procedures set forth in 
section 505 of this Act:  Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Commerce shall include in budget justification materials that the 
Secretary submits to Congress in support of the Department of Commerce 
budget (as submitted with the budget of the President under section 
1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) an estimate for each National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration procurement, acquisition, or 
construction project having a total of more than $5,000,000 and 
simultaneously the budget justification shall include an estimate of 
the budgetary requirements for each such project for each of the 5 
subsequent fiscal years:  Provided further, That, within the amounts 
appropriated, $1,302,000 shall be transferred to the ``Office of 
Inspector General'' account for activities associated with carrying out 
investigations and audits related to satellite procurement, 
acquisition, and construction.

                    pacific coastal salmon recovery

    For necessary expenses associated with the restoration of Pacific 
salmon populations, $65,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021:  Provided, That, of the funds provided herein, the Secretary 
of Commerce may issue grants to the States of Washington, Oregon, 
Idaho, Nevada, California, and Alaska, and to the Federally recognized 
tribes of the Columbia River and Pacific Coast (including Alaska), for 
projects necessary for conservation of salmon and steelhead populations 
that are listed as threatened or endangered, or that are identified by 
a State as at-risk to be so listed, for maintaining populations 
necessary for exercise of tribal treaty fishing rights or native 
subsistence fishing, or for conservation of Pacific coastal salmon and 
steelhead habitat, based on guidelines to be developed by the Secretary 
of Commerce:  Provided further, That all funds shall be allocated based 
on scientific and other merit principles and shall not be available for 
marketing activities:  Provided further, That funds disbursed to States 
shall be subject to a matching requirement of funds or documented in-
kind contributions of at least 33 percent of the Federal funds.

                      fishermen's contingency fund

    For carrying out the provisions of title IV of Public Law 95-372, 
not to exceed $349,000, to be derived from receipts collected pursuant 
to that Act, to remain available until expended.

                      fishery disaster assistance

    For the necessary expenses associated with the mitigation of 
fishery disasters, $15,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That funds shall be used for mitigating the effects of 
commercial fishery failures and fishery resource disasters as declared 
by the Secretary of Commerce.

                   fisheries finance program account

    Subject to section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
during fiscal year 2020, obligations of direct loans may not exceed 
$24,000,000 for Individual Fishing Quota loans and not to exceed 
$100,000,000 for traditional direct loans as authorized by the Merchant 
Marine Act of 1936.

                        Departmental Management

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the management of the Department of 
Commerce provided for by law, including not to exceed $4,500 for 
official reception and representation, $40,000,000 (reduced by 
$2,500,000) (increased by $3,600,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced 
by $2,000,000) (reduced by $914,000): Provided, That of the funds 
provided under this heading, $15,000,000 shall be withheld from 
obligation until the Secretary updates and resubmits to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate the 
plan for expenditure described in the third proviso under the heading 
``Bureau of the Census--Periodic Census and Programs'' in division C of 
Public Law 116-6.

                      renovation and modernization

    For necessary expenses for the renovation and modernization of 
Department of Commerce facilities, $1,100,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.), $35,043,000 (increased by $914,000):  Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 6413(b) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job 
Creation Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-96), $2,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, from the amounts provided under this heading, 
shall be derived from the Public Safety Trust Fund for activities 
associated with carrying out investigations and audits related to the 
First Responder Network Authority (FirstNet).

               General Provisions--Department of Commerce

    Sec. 101.  During the current fiscal year, applicable 
appropriations and funds made available to the Department of Commerce 
by this Act shall be available for the activities specified in the Act 
of October 26, 1949 (15 U.S.C. 1514), to the extent and in the manner 
prescribed by the Act, and, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3324, may be used 
for advanced payments not otherwise authorized only upon the 
certification of officials designated by the Secretary of Commerce that 
such payments are in the public interest.
    Sec. 102.  During the current fiscal year, appropriations made 
available to the Department of Commerce by this Act for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by law 
(5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 103.  The Secretary of Commerce shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations at least 15 days in advance of the acquisition or 
disposal of any capital asset (including land, structures, and 
equipment) not specifically provided for in this Act or any other law 
appropriating funds to the Department of Commerce.
    Sec. 104.  The requirements set forth by section 105 of the 
Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2012 (Public Law 112-55), as amended by section 105 of title I of 
division B of Public Law 113-6, are hereby adopted by reference and 
made applicable with respect to fiscal year 2020:  Provided, That the 
life cycle cost for the Joint Polar Satellite System is $11,322,125,000 
and the life cycle cost for the Geostationary Operational Environmental 
Satellite R-Series Program is $10,828,059,000.
    Sec. 105.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary may furnish services (including but not limited to utilities, 
telecommunications, and security services) necessary to support the 
operation, maintenance, and improvement of space that persons, firms, 
or organizations are authorized, pursuant to the Public Buildings 
Cooperative Use Act of 1976 or other authority, to use or occupy in the 
Herbert C. Hoover Building, Washington, DC, or other buildings, the 
maintenance, operation, and protection of which has been delegated to 
the Secretary from the Administrator of General Services pursuant to 
the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 on a 
reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis. Amounts received as 
reimbursement for services provided under this section or the authority 
under which the use or occupancy of the space is authorized, up to 
$100,000, shall be credited to the appropriation or fund which 
initially bears the costs of such services.
    Sec. 106.  Nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent a 
grant recipient from deterring child pornography, copyright 
infringement, or any other unlawful activity over its networks.
    Sec. 107.  The Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration is authorized to use, with their consent, 
with reimbursement and subject to the limits of available 
appropriations, the land, services, equipment, personnel, and 
facilities of any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States, or of any State, local government, Indian tribal government, 
Territory, or possession, or of any political subdivision thereof, or 
of any foreign government or international organization, for purposes 
related to carrying out the responsibilities of any statute 
administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
    Sec. 108.  The National Technical Information Service shall not 
charge any customer for a copy of any report or document generated by 
the Legislative Branch unless the Service has provided information to 
the customer on how an electronic copy of such report or document may 
be accessed and downloaded for free online. Should a customer still 
require the Service to provide a printed or digital copy of the report 
or document, the charge shall be limited to recovering the Service's 
cost of processing, reproducing, and delivering such report or 
document.
    Sec. 109.  To carry out the responsibilities of the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the Administrator of 
NOAA is authorized to: (1) enter into grants and cooperative agreements 
with; (2) use on a non-reimbursable basis land, services, equipment, 
personnel, and facilities provided by; and (3) receive and expend funds 
made available on a consensual basis from: a Federal agency, State or 
subdivision thereof, local government, tribal government, Territory, or 
possession or any subdivisions thereof:  Provided, That funds received 
for permitting and related regulatory activities pursuant to this 
section shall be deposited under the heading ``National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration--Operations, Research, and Facilities'' and 
shall remain available until September 30, 2022, for such purposes:  
Provided further, That all funds within this section and their 
corresponding uses are subject to section 505 of this Act.
    Sec. 110.  Amounts provided by this Act or by any prior 
appropriations Act that remain available for obligation, for necessary 
expenses of the programs of the Economics and Statistics Administration 
of the Department of Commerce, including amounts provided for programs 
of the Bureau of Economic Analysis and the Bureau of the Census, shall 
be available for expenses of cooperative agreements with appropriate 
entities, including any Federal, State, or local governmental unit, or 
institution of higher education, to aid and promote statistical, 
research, and methodology activities which further the purposes for 
which such amounts have been made available.
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds made available in this or prior Acts 
may be obligated or expended for the travel of personnel within the 
Office of the Secretary of Commerce from any account other than the 
``Departmental Management--Salaries and Expenses'' account.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Commerce 
Appropriations Act, 2020''.

                                TITLE II

                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the administration of the Department of 
Justice, $114,740,000 (reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) 
(reduced by $5,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) 
(reduced by $2,500,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) 
(reduced by $1,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced by $1,500,000) 
(reduced by $1,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced by $2,700,000) 
(reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced by $1,500,000) 
(reduced by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) 
(reduced by $500,000) (reduced by $1,000,000), of which not to exceed 
$4,000,000 for security and construction of Department of Justice 
facilities shall remain available until expended.

                 justice information sharing technology

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for information sharing technology, 
including planning, development, deployment and departmental direction, 
$33,875,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Attorney General may transfer up to $40,000,000 to this account, from 
funds available to the Department of Justice for information 
technology, to remain available until expended, for enterprise-wide 
information technology initiatives:  Provided further, That the 
transfer authority in the preceding proviso is in addition to any other 
transfer authority contained in this Act:  Provided further, That any 
transfer pursuant to the first proviso shall be treated as a 
reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available 
for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures 
set forth in that section.

                executive office for immigration review

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the administration of immigration-
related activities of the Executive Office for Immigration Review, 
$672,966,000 (reduced by $1) (increased by $1), of which $4,000,000 
shall be derived by transfer from the Executive Office for Immigration 
Review fees deposited in the ``Immigration Examinations Fee'' account, 
and of which not less than $25,000,000 shall be available for services 
and activities provided by the Legal Orientation Program:  Provided, 
That not to exceed $35,000,000 of the total amount made available under 
this heading shall remain available until expended.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$105,500,000, including not to exceed $10,000 to meet unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential character:  Provided, That not to exceed 
$2,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2021.

                    United States Parole Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Parole Commission as 
authorized, $13,308,000:  Provided, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, upon the expiration of a term of office of a 
Commissioner, the Commissioner may continue to act until a successor 
has been appointed.

                            Legal Activities

            salaries and expenses, general legal activities

    For expenses necessary for the legal activities of the Department 
of Justice, not otherwise provided for, including not to exceed $20,000 
for expenses of collecting evidence, to be expended under the direction 
of, and to be accounted for solely under the certificate of, the 
Attorney General; the administration of pardon and clemency petitions; 
and rent of private or Government-owned space in the District of 
Columbia, $934,600,000 (reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by 
$1,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000), of which 
not to exceed $20,000,000 for litigation support contracts shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That of the amount provided for 
INTERPOL Washington dues payments, not to exceed $685,000 shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated, not to exceed $9,000 shall be available to INTERPOL 
Washington for official reception and representation expenses:  
Provided further, That notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, upon a 
determination by the Attorney General that emergent circumstances 
require additional funding for litigation activities of the Civil 
Division, the Attorney General may transfer such amounts to ``Salaries 
and Expenses, General Legal Activities'' from available appropriations 
for the current fiscal year for the Department of Justice, as may be 
necessary to respond to such circumstances:  Provided further, That any 
transfer pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be treated as a 
reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available 
for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures 
set forth in that section:  Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated, such sums as may be necessary shall be available to the 
Civil Rights Division for salaries and expenses associated with the 
election monitoring program under section 8 of the Voting Rights Act of 
1965 (52 U.S.C. 10305) and to reimburse the Office of Personnel 
Management for such salaries and expenses:  Provided further, That of 
the amounts provided under this heading for the election monitoring 
program, $3,390,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That of the amount appropriated, not less than $197,387,000 
shall be available for the Criminal Division, including related 
expenses for the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty Program.
    In addition, for reimbursement of expenses of the Department of 
Justice associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to exceed $13,000,000, to be 
appropriated from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.

               salaries and expenses, antitrust division

    For expenses necessary for the enforcement of antitrust and kindred 
laws, $166,755,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, fees collected for 
premerger notification filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust 
Improvements Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the year of 
collection (and estimated to be $141,000,000 in fiscal year 2020), 
shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
appropriation, and shall remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall 
be reduced as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal 
year 2020, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2020 appropriation 
from the general fund estimated at $25,755,000.

             salaries and expenses, united states attorneys

    For necessary expenses of the Offices of the United States 
Attorneys, including inter-governmental and cooperative agreements, 
$2,329,800,000:  Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, not 
to exceed $7,200 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses:  Provided further, That not to exceed 
$25,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That each United States Attorney shall establish or participate in a 
task force on human trafficking.

                   united states trustee system fund

    For necessary expenses of the United States Trustee Program, as 
authorized, $227,229,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, deposits to 
the United States Trustee System Fund and amounts herein appropriated 
shall be available in such amounts as may be necessary to pay refunds 
due depositors:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, fees deposited into the Fund pursuant to section 
589a(b) of title 28, United States Code (as limited by section 1004(b) 
of the Bankruptcy Judgeship Act of 2017 (division B of Public Law 115-
72)), shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
appropriation and shall remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That to the extent that fees deposited into the Fund in fiscal 
year 2020, net of amounts necessary to pay refunds due depositors, 
exceed $227,229,000, those excess amounts shall be available in future 
fiscal years only to the extent provided in advance in appropriations 
Acts:  Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated from the 
general fund shall be reduced: (1) as such fees are received during 
fiscal year 2020, net of amounts necessary to pay refunds due 
depositors, (estimated at $309,000,000); and (2) to the extent that any 
remaining general fund appropriations can be derived from amounts 
deposited in the Fund in previous fiscal years that are not otherwise 
appropriated, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2020 appropriation 
from the general fund estimated at $0.

      salaries and expenses, foreign claims settlement commission

    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the Foreign 
Claims Settlement Commission, including services as authorized by 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, $2,335,000.

                     fees and expenses of witnesses

    For fees and expenses of witnesses, for expenses of contracts for 
the procurement and supervision of expert witnesses, for private 
counsel expenses, including advances, and for expenses of foreign 
counsel, $270,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which not 
to exceed $16,000,000 is for construction of buildings for protected 
witness safesites; not to exceed $3,000,000 is for the purchase and 
maintenance of armored and other vehicles for witness security 
caravans; and not to exceed $18,000,000 is for the purchase, 
installation, maintenance, and upgrade of secure telecommunications 
equipment and a secure automated information network to store and 
retrieve the identities and locations of protected witnesses:  
Provided, That amounts made available under this heading may not be 
transferred pursuant to section 205 of this Act.

           salaries and expenses, community relations service

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Community Relations Service, 
$17,000,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, 
upon a determination by the Attorney General that emergent 
circumstances require additional funding for conflict resolution and 
violence prevention activities of the Community Relations Service, the 
Attorney General may transfer such amounts to the Community Relations 
Service, from available appropriations for the current fiscal year for 
the Department of Justice, as may be necessary to respond to such 
circumstances:  Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the 
preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                         assets forfeiture fund

    For expenses authorized by subparagraphs (B), (F), and (G) of 
section 524(c)(1) of title 28, United States Code, $20,514,000, to be 
derived from the Department of Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund.

                     United States Marshals Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Marshals Service, 
$1,444,600,000, of which not to exceed $6,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses, and not to exceed 
$25,000,000 shall remain available until expended.

                              construction

    For construction in space controlled, occupied or utilized by the 
United States Marshals Service for prisoner holding and related 
support, $15,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                       federal prisoner detention

    For necessary expenses related to United States prisoners in the 
custody of the United States Marshals Service as authorized by section 
4013 of title 18, United States Code, $1,792,461,000 (reduced by 
$13,000,000), to remain available until expended:  Provided, That not 
to exceed $20,000,000 shall be considered ``funds appropriated for 
State and local law enforcement assistance'' pursuant to section 
4013(b) of title 18, United States Code:  Provided further, That the 
United States Marshals Service shall be responsible for managing the 
Justice Prisoner and Alien Transportation System.

                       National Security Division

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the National 
Security Division, $109,585,000 (increased by $1,000,000), of which not 
to exceed $5,000,000 for information technology systems shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 205 
of this Act, upon a determination by the Attorney General that emergent 
circumstances require additional funding for the activities of the 
National Security Division, the Attorney General may transfer such 
amounts to this heading from available appropriations for the current 
fiscal year for the Department of Justice, as may be necessary to 
respond to such circumstances:  Provided further, That any transfer 
pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming 
under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation 
or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in 
that section.

                      Interagency Law Enforcement

                 interagency crime and drug enforcement

    For necessary expenses for the identification, investigation, and 
prosecution of individuals associated with the most significant drug 
trafficking organizations, transnational organized crime, and money 
laundering organizations not otherwise provided for, to include inter-
governmental agreements with State and local law enforcement agencies 
engaged in the investigation and prosecution of individuals involved in 
transnational organized crime and drug trafficking, $570,000,000, of 
which $50,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That any amounts obligated from appropriations under this heading may 
be used under authorities available to the organizations reimbursed 
from this appropriation.

                    Federal Bureau of Investigation

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 
detection, investigation, and prosecution of crimes against the United 
States, $9,455,928,000, of which not to exceed $216,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That not to exceed $184,500 
shall be available for official reception and representation expenses.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses, to include the cost of equipment, 
furniture, and information technology requirements, related to 
construction or acquisition of buildings, facilities and sites by 
purchase, or as otherwise authorized by law; conversion, modification 
and extension of federally owned buildings; preliminary planning and 
design of projects; and operation and maintenance of secure work 
environment facilities and secure networking capabilities; $51,895,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                    Drug Enforcement Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Drug Enforcement Administration, 
including not to exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential character pursuant to section 530C of title 28, United 
States Code; and expenses for conducting drug education and training 
programs, including travel and related expenses for participants in 
such programs and the distribution of items of token value that promote 
the goals of such programs, $2,356,858,000 (reduced by $5,000,000), of 
which not to exceed $75,000,000 shall remain available until expended 
and not to exceed $90,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses.

          Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms 
and Explosives, for training of State and local law enforcement 
agencies with or without reimbursement, including training in 
connection with the training and acquisition of canines for explosives 
and fire accelerants detection; and for provision of laboratory 
assistance to State and local law enforcement agencies, with or without 
reimbursement, $1,439,000,000, of which not to exceed $36,000 shall be 
for official reception and representation expenses, not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall be available for the payment of attorneys' fees as 
provided by section 924(d)(2) of title 18, United States Code, and not 
to exceed $25,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated herein shall be available to 
investigate or act upon applications for relief from Federal firearms 
disabilities under section 925(c) of title 18, United States Code:  
Provided further, That such funds shall be available to investigate and 
act upon applications filed by corporations for relief from Federal 
firearms disabilities under section 925(c) of title 18, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That no funds made available by this or any 
other Act may be used to transfer the functions, missions, or 
activities of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives 
to other agencies or Departments.

                         Federal Prison System

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Prison System for the 
administration, operation, and maintenance of Federal penal and 
correctional institutions, and for the provision of technical 
assistance and advice on corrections related issues to foreign 
governments, $7,325,000,000 (reduced by $1) (increased by $1) 
(increased by $2,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced by 
$1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000):  Provided, That the Attorney 
General may transfer to the Department of Health and Human Services 
such amounts as may be necessary for direct expenditures by that 
Department for medical relief for inmates of Federal penal and 
correctional institutions:  Provided further, That the Director of the 
Federal Prison System, where necessary, may enter into contracts with a 
fiscal agent or fiscal intermediary claims processor to determine the 
amounts payable to persons who, on behalf of the Federal Prison System, 
furnish health services to individuals committed to the custody of the 
Federal Prison System:  Provided further, That not to exceed $5,400 
shall be available for official reception and representation expenses:  
Provided further, That not to exceed $50,000,000 shall remain available 
for necessary operations until September 30, 2021:  Provided further, 
That, of the amounts provided for contract confinement, not to exceed 
$20,000,000 shall remain available until expended to make payments in 
advance for grants, contracts and reimbursable agreements, and other 
expenses:  Provided further, That the Director of the Federal Prison 
System may accept donated property and services relating to the 
operation of the prison card program from a not-for-profit entity which 
has operated such program in the past, notwithstanding the fact that 
such not-for-profit entity furnishes services under contracts to the 
Federal Prison System relating to the operation of pre-release 
services, halfway houses, or other custodial facilities.

                        buildings and facilities

    For planning, acquisition of sites, and construction of new 
facilities; purchase and acquisition of facilities and remodeling, and 
equipping of such facilities for penal and correctional use, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account; 
and constructing, remodeling, and equipping necessary buildings and 
facilities at existing penal and correctional institutions, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account, 
$150,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That labor 
of United States prisoners may be used for work performed under this 
appropriation.

                federal prison industries, incorporated

    The Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated, is hereby authorized 
to make such expenditures within the limits of funds and borrowing 
authority available, and in accord with the law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 9104 of title 31, United States Code, as may be 
necessary in carrying out the program set forth in the budget for the 
current fiscal year for such corporation.

   limitation on administrative expenses, federal prison industries, 
                              incorporated

    Not to exceed $2,700,000 of the funds of the Federal Prison 
Industries, Incorporated, shall be available for its administrative 
expenses, and for services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, 
United States Code, to be computed on an accrual basis to be determined 
in accordance with the corporation's current prescribed accounting 
system, and such amounts shall be exclusive of depreciation, payment of 
claims, and expenditures which such accounting system requires to be 
capitalized or charged to cost of commodities acquired or produced, 
including selling and shipping expenses, and expenses in connection 
with acquisition, construction, operation, maintenance, improvement, 
protection, or disposition of facilities and other property belonging 
to the corporation or in which it has an interest.

               State and Local Law Enforcement Activities

                    Office on Violence Against Women

       violence against women prevention and prosecution programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
for the prevention and prosecution of violence against women, as 
authorized by the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 
(34 U.S.C. 10101 et seq.) (``the 1968 Act''); the Violent Crime Control 
and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 
Act''); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647) 
(``the 1990 Act''); the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end 
the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-21); the 
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (34 U.S.C. 
11101 et seq.) (``the 1974 Act''); the Victims of Trafficking and 
Violence Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-386) (``the 2000 
Act''); the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice 
Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); 
the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-
4) (``the 2013 Act''); and the Rape Survivor Child Custody Act of 2015 
(Public Law 114-22) (``the 2015 Act''); and for related victims 
services, $582,500,000 (increased by $5,000,000) (increased by 
$2,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) 
(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000), to remain available 
until expended, which shall be derived by transfer from amounts 
available for obligation in this Act from the Fund established by 
section 1402 of chapter XIV of title II of Public Law 98-473 (34 U.S.C. 
20101), notwithstanding section 1402(d) of such Act of 1984, and merged 
with the amounts otherwise made available under this heading:  
Provided, That except as otherwise provided by law, not to exceed 5 
percent of funds made available under this heading may be used for 
expenses related to evaluation, training, and technical assistance:  
Provided further, That of the amount provided--
            (1) $222,000,000 is for grants to combat violence against 
        women, as authorized by part T of the 1968 Act;
            (2) $41,000,000 (increased by $1,000,000) is for 
        transitional housing assistance grants for victims of domestic 
        violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault as 
        authorized by section 40299 of the 1994 Act;
            (3) $3,000,000 is for the National Institute of Justice and 
        the Bureau of Justice Statistics for research, evaluation, and 
        statistics of violence against women and related issues 
        addressed by grant programs of the Office on Violence Against 
        Women, which shall be transferred to ``Research, Evaluation and 
        Statistics'' for administration by the Office of Justice 
        Programs;
            (4) $20,000,000 (reduced by $2,000,000) (increased by 
        $2,000,000) is for a grant program to provide services to 
        advocate for and respond to youth victims of domestic violence, 
        dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking; assistance to 
        children and youth exposed to such violence; programs to engage 
        men and youth in preventing such violence; and assistance to 
        middle and high school students through education and other 
        services related to such violence:  Provided, That unobligated 
        balances available for the programs authorized by sections 
        41201, 41204, 41303, and 41305 of the 1994 Act, prior to its 
        amendment by the 2013 Act, shall be available for this program: 
         Provided further, That 10 percent of the total amount 
        available for this grant program shall be available for grants 
        under the program authorized by section 2015 of the 1968 Act:  
        Provided further, That the definitions and grant conditions in 
        section 40002 of the 1994 Act shall apply to this program;
            (5) $62,000,000 is for grants to encourage arrest policies 
        as authorized by part U of the 1968 Act, of which $4,000,000 is 
        for a homicide reduction initiative;
            (6) $50,000,000 is for sexual assault victims assistance, 
        as authorized by section 41601 of the 1994 Act;
            (7) $50,000,000 is for rural domestic violence and child 
        abuse enforcement assistance grants, as authorized by section 
        40295 of the 1994 Act;
            (8) $26,000,000 is for grants to reduce violent crimes 
        against women on campus, as authorized by section 304 of the 
        2005 Act;
            (9) $57,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000) is for legal 
        assistance for victims, as authorized by section 1201 of the 
        2000 Act;
            (10) $9,000,000 is for enhanced training and services to 
        end violence against and abuse of women in later life, as 
        authorized by section 40801 of the 1994 Act;
            (11) $22,000,000 is for grants to support families in the 
        justice system, as authorized by section 1301 of the 2000 Act:  
        Provided, That unobligated balances available for the programs 
        authorized by section 1301 of the 2000 Act and section 41002 of 
        the 1994 Act, prior to their amendment by the 2013 Act, shall 
        be available for this program;
            (12) $9,000,000 is for education and training to end 
        violence against and abuse of women with disabilities, as 
        authorized by section 1402 of the 2000 Act;
            (13) $1,000,000 is for the National Resource Center on 
        Workplace Responses to assist victims of domestic violence, as 
        authorized by section 41501 of the 1994 Act;
            (14) $1,000,000 is for analysis and research on violence 
        against Indian women, including as authorized by section 904 of 
        the 2005 Act:  Provided, That such funds may be transferred to 
        ``Research, Evaluation and Statistics'' for administration by 
        the Office of Justice Programs;
            (15) $1,000,000 is for a national clearinghouse that 
        provides training and technical assistance on issues relating 
        to sexual assault of American Indian and Alaska Native women;
            (16) $5,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000) is for grants to 
        assist tribal governments in exercising special domestic 
        violence criminal jurisdiction, as authorized by section 904 of 
        the 2013 Act:  Provided, That the grant conditions in section 
        40002(b) of the 1994 Act shall apply to this program; and
            (17) $3,500,000 is for the purposes authorized under the 
        2015 Act.

                       Office of Justice Programs

                  research, evaluation and statistics

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency 
Prevention Act of 1974 (``the 1974 Act''); the Missing Children's 
Assistance Act (34 U.S.C. 11291 et seq.); the Prosecutorial Remedies 
and Other Tools to end the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 
(Public Law 108-21); the Justice for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-
405); the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice 
Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); 
the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647); the Second 
Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-199); the Victims of Crime Act of 
1984 (Public Law 98-473); the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety 
Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248) (``the Adam Walsh Act''); the PROTECT 
Our Children Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-401); subtitle D of title II 
of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296) (``the 2002 
Act''); the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-
180); the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public 
Law 113-4) (``the 2013 Act''); and other programs, $80,000,000 
(increased by $2,000,000), to remain available until expended, of 
which--
            (1) $43,000,000 is for criminal justice statistics 
        programs, and other activities, as authorized by part C of 
        title I of the 1968 Act, of which $5,000,000 is for a 
        nationwide incident-based crime statistics program; and
            (2) $37,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000) is for research, 
        development, and evaluation programs, and other activities as 
        authorized by part B of title I of the 1968 Act and subtitle D 
        of title II of the 2002 Act, of which $5,000,000 is for 
        research targeted toward developing a better understanding of 
        the domestic radicalization phenomenon, and advancing evidence-
        based strategies for effective intervention and prevention; 
        $1,000,000 (increased by $1,000,000) is for research to study 
        the root causes of school violence to include the impact and 
        effectiveness of grants made under the STOP School Violence 
        Act; $1,000,000 is for a study to better protect children 
        against online predatory behavior as part of the National 
        Juvenile Online Victimization Studies (N-JOVS); $3,000,000 
        (increased by $2,000,000) is for a national center for 
        restorative justice; and $3,000,000 is for corrections-related 
        research, and $1,500,000 is for expenses (including research 
        and evaluation) associated with the National Institute of 
        Justice's implementation of the First Step Act of 2018 (Public 
        Law 115-391).

               state and local law enforcement assistance

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 
(Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 Act''); the Omnibus Crime Control and 
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Justice for All Act of 
2004 (Public Law 108-405); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 
(Public Law 101-647) (``the 1990 Act''); the Trafficking Victims 
Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-164); the 
Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 
2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); the Adam Walsh Child 
Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248) (``the Adam 
Walsh Act''); the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 
2000 (Public Law 106-386); the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 
(Public Law 110-180); subtitle D of title II of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296) (``the 2002 Act''); the Second Chance 
Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-199); the Prioritizing Resources and 
Organization for Intellectual Property Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-
403); the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-473); the 
Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Reauthorization and 
Improvement Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-416); the Violence Against 
Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 
Act''); the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 (Public 
Law 114-198) (``CARA''); the Justice for All Reauthorization Act of 
2016 (Public Law 114-324); Kevin and Avonte's Law (division Q of Public 
Law 115-141) (``Kevin and Avonte's Law''); the Keep Young Athletes Safe 
Act of 2018 (title III of division S of Public Law 115-141) (``the Keep 
Young Athletes Safe Act''); the STOP School Violence Act of 2018 (title 
V of division S of Public Law 115-141) (``the STOP School Violence 
Act''); the Fix NICS Act of 2018 (title VI of division S of Public Law 
115-141); the Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program Authorization 
Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-185); and the SUPPORT for Patients and 
Communities Act (Public Law 115-271); and other programs, 
$1,933,000,000 (increased by $2,500,000) (increased by $5,000,000) 
(increased by $1,000,000) (increased by $2,500,000) (increased by 
$1,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $1,500,000) 
(increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by 
$5,000,000) (reduced by $15,000,000) (increased by $15,000,000) 
(increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) (increased by 
$5,000,000) (increased by $500,000) (increased by $1,000,000), to 
remain available until expended as follows--
            (1) $530,250,000 (increased by $1,000,000) for the Edward 
        Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant program as authorized 
        by subpart 1 of part E of title I of the 1968 Act (except that 
        section 1001(c), and the special rules for Puerto Rico under 
        section 505(g) of title I of the 1968 Act shall not apply for 
        purposes of this Act), of which, notwithstanding such subpart 
        1, $15,000,000 is for the Officer Robert Wilson III Memorial 
        Initiative on Preventing Violence Against Law Enforcement 
        Officer Resilience and Survivability (VALOR), $7,500,000 is for 
        an initiative to support evidence-based policing, $10,000,000 
        (increased by $1,000,000) is for an initiative to enhance 
        prosecutorial decision-making, $3,600,000 is for the 
        operationalization, maintenance and expansion of the National 
        Missing and Unidentified Persons System, $2,500,000 (reduced by 
        $2,500,000) (increased by $2,500,000) is for an academic based 
        training initiative to improve police-based responses to people 
        with mental illness or developmental disabilities, $2,000,000 
        (increased by $2,000,000) is for a student loan repayment 
        assistance program pursuant to section 952 of Public Law 110-
        315, $15,500,000 is for prison rape prevention and prosecution 
        grants to States and units of local government, and other 
        programs, as authorized by the Prison Rape Elimination Act of 
        2003 (Public Law 108-79), $2,000,000 is for a grant program 
        authorized by Kevin and Avonte's Law, $3,000,000 is for a 
        regional law enforcement technology initiative, $7,000,000 is 
        for the Capital Litigation Improvement Grant Program, as 
        authorized by section 426 of Public Law 108-405, and for grants 
        for wrongful conviction review, $2,000,000 is for emergency law 
        enforcement assistance for events occurring during or after 
        fiscal year 2020, as authorized by section 609M of the Justice 
        Assistance Act of 1984 (34 U.S.C. 50101), $2,000,000 is for 
        grants to States and units of local government to deploy 
        managed access systems to combat contraband cell phone use in 
        prison, $4,000,000 is for a program to improve juvenile 
        indigent defense, $100,000,000 is for grants for law 
        enforcement activities associated with the presidential 
        nominating conventions, $20,000,000 is for grants authorized 
        under the Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program 
        Authorization Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-185), and $8,000,000 
        (increased by $2,000,000) is for community-based violence 
        prevention initiatives;
            (2) $260,000,000 for the State Criminal Alien Assistance 
        Program, as authorized by section 241(i)(5) of the Immigration 
        and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1231(i)(5)):  Provided, That no 
        jurisdiction shall request compensation for any cost greater 
        than the actual cost for Federal immigration and other 
        detainees housed in State and local detention facilities;
            (3) $100,000,000 for victim services programs for victims 
        of trafficking, as authorized by section 107(b)(2) of Public 
        Law 106-386, for programs authorized under Public Law 109-164, 
        or programs authorized under Public Law 113-4;
            (4) $14,000,000 for economic, high technology, white 
        collar, and Internet crime prevention grants, including as 
        authorized by section 401 of Public Law 110-403, of which 
        $2,500,000 is for competitive grants that help State and local 
        law enforcement tackle intellectual property thefts, and 
        $2,000,000 for a competitive grant program for training 
        students in computer forensics and digital investigation;
            (5) $20,000,000 for sex offender management assistance, as 
        authorized by the Adam Walsh Act, and related activities;
            (6) $25,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000) for the matching 
        grant program for law enforcement armor vests, as authorized by 
        section 2501 of title I of the 1968 Act:  Provided, That 
        $1,500,000 is transferred directly to the National Institute of 
        Standards and Technology's Office of Law Enforcement Standards 
        for research, testing and evaluation programs;
            (7) $1,000,000 (increased by $1,000,000) for the National 
        Sex Offender Public Website;
            (8) $80,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by 
        $5,000,000) for grants to States to upgrade criminal and mental 
        health records for the National Instant Criminal Background 
        Check System, of which no less than $27,500,000 shall be for 
        grants made under the authorities of the NICS Improvement 
        Amendments Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-180) and Fix NICS Act of 
        2018;
            (9) $30,000,000 for Paul Coverdell Forensic Sciences 
        Improvement Grants under part BB of title I of the 1968 Act;
            (10) $142,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000) for DNA-related 
        and forensic programs and activities, of which--
                    (A) $100,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000) is for 
                the purposes authorized under section 2 of the DNA 
                Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000 (Public Law 
                106-546) (the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program):  
                Provided, That up to 4 percent of funds made available 
                under this paragraph may be used for the purposes 
                described in the DNA Training and Education for Law 
                Enforcement, Correctional Personnel, and Court Officers 
                program (Public Law 108-405, section 303);
                    (B) $30,000,000 for other local, State, and Federal 
                forensic activities;
                    (C) $8,000,000 is for the purposes described in the 
                Kirk Bloodsworth Post-Conviction DNA Testing Grant 
                Program (Public Law 108-405, section 412); and
                    (D) $4,000,000 is for Sexual Assault Forensic Exam 
                Program grants, including as authorized by section 304 
                of Public Law 108-405;
            (11) $49,000,000 (increased by $1,000,000) for a grant 
        program for community-based sexual assault response reform;
            (12) $12,000,000 (increased by $500,000) for the court-
        appointed special advocate program, as authorized by section 
        217 of the 1990 Act;
            (13) $106,500,000 for offender reentry programs and 
        research, as authorized by the Second Chance Act of 2007 
        (Public Law 110-199), without regard to the time limitations 
        specified at section 6(1) of such Act, of which not to exceed 
        $6,000,000 is for a program to improve State, local, and tribal 
        probation or parole supervision efforts and strategies, 
        $5,000,000 (increased by $3,000,000) is for Children of 
        Incarcerated Parents Demonstrations to enhance and maintain 
        parental and family relationships for incarcerated parents as a 
        reentry or recidivism reduction strategy, and $4,000,000 is for 
        additional replication sites employing the Project HOPE 
        Opportunity Probation with Enforcement model implementing swift 
        and certain sanctions in probation, and for a research project 
        on the effectiveness of the model:  Provided, That up to 
        $7,500,000 of funds made available in this paragraph may be 
        used for performance-based awards for Pay for Success projects, 
        of which up to $5,000,000 (reduced by $4,000,000) (increased by 
        $4,000,000) shall be for Pay for Success programs implementing 
        the Permanent Supportive Housing Model;
            (14) $80,000,000 (increased by $2,500,000) for initiatives 
        to improve police-community relations, of which $25,000,000 
        (increased by $2,500,000) is for a competitive matching grant 
        program for purchases of body-worn cameras for State, local and 
        Tribal law enforcement, $35,000,000 is for a justice 
        reinvestment initiative, for activities related to criminal 
        justice reform and recidivism reduction, and $20,000,000 is for 
        an Edward Byrne Memorial criminal justice innovation program;
            (15) $375,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by 
        $1,500,000) (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) 
        (increased by $5,000,000) for comprehensive opioid abuse 
        reduction activities, including as authorized by CARA, and for 
        the following programs, which shall address opioid abuse 
        reduction consistent with underlying program authorities--
                    (A) $83,000,000 for Drug Courts, as authorized by 
                section 1001(a)(25)(A) of title I of the 1968 Act;
                    (B) $35,000,000 (increased by $1,500,000) for 
                mental health courts and adult and juvenile 
                collaboration program grants, as authorized by parts V 
                and HH of title I of the 1968 Act, and the Mentally Ill 
                Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Reauthorization 
                and Improvement Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-416);
                    (C) $33,000,000 for grants for Residential 
                Substance Abuse Treatment for State Prisoners, as 
                authorized by part S of title I of the 1968 Act;
                    (D) $25,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000) 
                (increased by $1,000,000) for a veterans treatment 
                courts program;
                    (E) $30,000,000 for a program to monitor 
                prescription drugs and scheduled listed chemical 
                products;
                    (F) $159,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000) 
                (increased by $5,000,000) for a comprehensive opioid 
                abuse program; and
                    (G) $10,000,000 is for law enforcement assisted 
                diversion program grants;
            (16) $2,500,000 (increased by $2,500,000) for a competitive 
        grant program authorized by the Keep Young Athletes Safe Act;
            (17) $93,750,000 for grants to be administered by the 
        Bureau of Justice Assistance including for purposes authorized 
        under the STOP School Violence Act, of which $2,000,000 is for 
        a center for campus safety;
            (18) $10,000,000 for a competitive grant pilot program for 
        qualified nonprofit organizations to provide legal 
        representation to immigrants arriving at the southwest border 
        seeking asylum and other forms of legal protection in the 
        United States; and
            (19) $2,000,000 for grants to state and local law 
        enforcement agencies for the expenses associated with the 
        investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses, involving 
        civil rights, authorized by the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil 
        Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-325).

                       juvenile justice programs

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 
1974 (``the 1974 Act''); the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Violence Against Women and Department 
of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 
Act''); the Missing Children's Assistance Act (34 U.S.C. 11291 et 
seq.); the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the 
Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-21); the 
Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647) (``the 1990 
Act''); the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (Public 
Law 109-248) (``the Adam Walsh Act''); the PROTECT Our Children Act of 
2008 (Public Law 110-401); the Violence Against Women Reauthorization 
Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 Act''); the Justice for All 
Reauthorization Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-324); and other juvenile 
justice programs, $341,500,000 (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by 
$1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000) 
(increased by $13,000,000), to remain available until expended as 
follows--
            (1) $65,000,000 (increased by $1,000,000) for programs 
        authorized by section 221 of the 1974 Act, and for training and 
        technical assistance to assist small, nonprofit organizations 
        with the Federal grants process:  Provided, That of the amounts 
        provided under this paragraph, $500,000 shall be for a 
        competitive demonstration grant program to support emergency 
        planning among State, local and tribal juvenile justice 
        residential facilities;
            (2) $100,000,000 for youth mentoring grants;
            (3) $49,500,000 (increased by $1,000,000) (increased by 
        $1,000,000) (increased by $13,000,000) for delinquency 
        prevention, as authorized by section 505 of the 1974 Act, of 
        which, pursuant to sections 261 and 262 thereof--
                    (A) $5,000,000 (increased by $1,000,000) shall be 
                for grants to prevent trafficking of girls;
                    (B) $7,500,000 shall be for the Tribal Youth 
                Program;
                    (C) $500,000 shall be for an Internet site 
                providing information and resources on children of 
                incarcerated parents;
                    (D) $2,000,000 shall be for competitive grants 
                focusing on girls in the juvenile justice system;
                    (E) $9,000,000 shall be for an opioid-affected 
                youth initiative;
                    (F) $8,000,000 shall be for an initiative relating 
                to children exposed to violence; and
            (4) $28,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000) for programs 
        authorized by the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990;
            (5) $85,000,000 for missing and exploited children 
        programs, including as authorized by sections 404(b) and 405(a) 
        of the 1974 Act (except that section 102(b)(4)(B) of the 
        PROTECT Our Children Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-401) shall not 
        apply for purposes of this Act);
            (6) $4,000,000 for child abuse training programs for 
        judicial personnel and practitioners, as authorized by section 
        222 of the 1990 Act; and
            (7) $10,000,000 for the Juvenile Accountability Block 
        Grants program as authorized by part R of title I of the 1968 
        Act and Guam shall be considered a State.

                     public safety officer benefits

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For payments and expenses authorized under section 1001(a)(4) of 
title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, such 
sums as are necessary (including amounts for administrative costs), to 
remain available until expended; and $24,800,000 for payments 
authorized by section 1201(b) of such Act and for educational 
assistance authorized by section 1218 of such Act, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, 
upon a determination by the Attorney General that emergent 
circumstances require additional funding for such disability and 
education payments, the Attorney General may transfer such amounts to 
``Public Safety Officer Benefits'' from available appropriations for 
the Department of Justice as may be necessary to respond to such 
circumstances:  Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the 
preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                  Community Oriented Policing Services

             community oriented policing services programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For activities authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322); the Omnibus Crime Control 
and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Violence Against 
Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 
109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); and the SUPPORT for Patients and 
Communities Act (Public Law 115-271), $323,000,000 (increased by 
$2,700,000), to remain available until expended:  Provided, That any 
balances made available through prior year deobligations shall only be 
available in accordance with section 505 of this Act:  Provided 
further, That of the amount provided under this heading--
            (1) $239,750,000 (increased by $2,700,000) is for grants 
        under section 1701 of title I of the 1968 Act (34 U.S.C. 10381) 
        for the hiring and rehiring of additional career law 
        enforcement officers under part Q of such title notwithstanding 
        subsection (i) of such section:  Provided, That, 
        notwithstanding section 1704(c) of such title (34 U.S.C. 
        10384(c)), funding for hiring or rehiring a career law 
        enforcement officer may not exceed $125,000 unless the Director 
        of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services grants a 
        waiver from this limitation:  Provided further, That of the 
        amounts appropriated under this paragraph, $6,500,000 is for 
        community policing development activities in furtherance of the 
        purposes in section 1701:  Provided further, That of the 
        amounts appropriated under this paragraph $38,000,000 
        (increased by $2,700,000) is for regional information sharing 
        activities, as authorized by part M of title I of the 1968 Act, 
        which shall be transferred to and merged with ``Research, 
        Evaluation, and Statistics'' for administration by the Office 
        of Justice Programs:  Provided further, That within the amounts 
        appropriated under this paragraph, no less than $3,000,000 is 
        to support the Tribal Access Program:  Provided further, That 
        within the amounts appropriated under this paragraph, 
        $2,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000) is for training, peer 
        mentoring, and mental health program activities as authorized 
        under the Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act 
        (Public Law 115-113);
            (2) $12,000,000 is for activities authorized by the POLICE 
        Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-199);
            (3) $8,000,000 is for competitive grants to State law 
        enforcement agencies in States with high seizures of precursor 
        chemicals, finished methamphetamine, laboratories, and 
        laboratory dump seizures:  Provided, That funds appropriated 
        under this paragraph shall be utilized for investigative 
        purposes to locate or investigate illicit activities, including 
        precursor diversion, laboratories, or methamphetamine 
        traffickers;
            (4) $32,000,000 is for competitive grants to statewide law 
        enforcement agencies in States with high rates of primary 
        treatment admissions for heroin and other opioids:  Provided, 
        That these funds shall be utilized for investigative purposes 
        to locate or investigate illicit activities, including 
        activities related to the distribution of heroin or unlawful 
        distribution of prescription opioids, or unlawful heroin and 
        prescription opioid traffickers through statewide 
        collaboration; and
            (5) $31,250,000 is for competitive grants to be 
        administered by the Community Oriented Policing Services Office 
        for purposes authorized under the STOP School Violence Act 
        (title V of division S of Public Law 115-141).

               General Provisions--Department of Justice

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 201.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available in this 
title for official reception and representation expenses, a total of 
not to exceed $50,000 from funds appropriated to the Department of 
Justice in this title shall be available to the Attorney General for 
official reception and representation expenses.
    Sec. 202.  None of the funds appropriated by this title shall be 
available to pay for an abortion, except where the life of the mother 
would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term, or in the case 
of rape or incest:  Provided, That should this prohibition be declared 
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, this section 
shall be null and void.
    Sec. 203.  None of the funds appropriated under this title shall be 
used to require any person to perform, or facilitate in any way the 
performance of, any abortion.
    Sec. 204.  Nothing in the preceding section shall remove the 
obligation of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons to provide escort 
services necessary for a female inmate to receive such service outside 
the Federal facility:  Provided, That nothing in this section in any 
way diminishes the effect of section 203 intended to address the 
philosophical beliefs of individual employees of the Bureau of Prisons.
    Sec. 205.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Justice in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers:  Provided, 
That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section.
    Sec. 206.  None of the funds made available under this title may be 
used by the Federal Bureau of Prisons or the United States Marshals 
Service for the purpose of transporting an individual who is a prisoner 
pursuant to conviction for crime under State or Federal law and is 
classified as a maximum or high security prisoner, other than to a 
prison or other facility certified by the Federal Bureau of Prisons as 
appropriately secure for housing such a prisoner.
    Sec. 207. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
used by Federal prisons to purchase cable television services, or to 
rent or purchase audiovisual or electronic media or equipment used 
primarily for recreational purposes.
    (b) Subsection (a) does not preclude the rental, maintenance, or 
purchase of audiovisual or electronic media or equipment for inmate 
training, religious, or educational programs.
    Sec. 208.  None of the funds made available under this title shall 
be obligated or expended for any new or enhanced information technology 
program having total estimated development costs in excess of 
$100,000,000, unless the Deputy Attorney General and the investment 
review board certify to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate that the information technology 
program has appropriate program management controls and contractor 
oversight mechanisms in place, and that the program is compatible with 
the enterprise architecture of the Department of Justice.
    Sec. 209.  The notification thresholds and procedures set forth in 
section 505 of this Act shall apply to deviations from the amounts 
designated for specific activities in this Act and in the report 
accompanying this Act, and to any use of deobligated balances of funds 
provided under this title in previous years.
    Sec. 210.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
to plan for, begin, continue, finish, process, or approve a public-
private competition under the Office of Management and Budget Circular 
A-76 or any successor administrative regulation, directive, or policy 
for work performed by employees of the Bureau of Prisons or of Federal 
Prison Industries, Incorporated.
    Sec. 211.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds 
shall be available for the salary, benefits, or expenses of any United 
States Attorney assigned dual or additional responsibilities by the 
Attorney General or his designee that exempt that United States 
Attorney from the residency requirements of section 545 of title 28, 
United States Code.
    Sec. 212.  At the discretion of the Attorney General, and in 
addition to any amounts that otherwise may be available (or authorized 
to be made available) by law, with respect to funds appropriated by 
this title under the headings ``Research, Evaluation and Statistics'', 
``State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance'', and ``Juvenile Justice 
Programs''or otherwise appropriated or transferred under this Act for 
administration by the Office of Justice Programs--
            (1) up to 3 percent of funds made available to the Office 
        of Justice Programs for grant or reimbursement programs may be 
        used by such Office to provide training and technical 
        assistance;
            (2) up to 3 percent of funds made available for grant or 
        reimbursement programs under such headings, except for amounts 
        appropriated specifically for research, evaluation, or 
        statistical programs administered by the National Institute of 
        Justice and the Bureau of Justice Statistics, shall be 
        transferred to and merged with funds provided to the National 
        Institute of Justice and the Bureau of Justice Statistics, to 
        be used by them for research, evaluation, or statistical 
        purposes, without regard to the authorizations for such grant 
        or reimbursement programs; and
            (3) up to 7 percent of funds made available for grant or 
        reimbursement programs may be transferred to and merged with 
        funds under the heading ``State and Local Law Enforcement 
        Assistance'', for assistance to Indian tribes, without regard 
        to the authorizations for such grant or reimbursement programs.
    Sec. 213.  Upon request by a grantee for whom the Attorney General 
has determined there is a fiscal hardship, the Attorney General may, 
with respect to funds appropriated in this or any other Act making 
appropriations for fiscal years 2017 through 2020 for the following 
programs, waive the following requirements:
            (1) For the adult and juvenile offender State and local 
        reentry demonstration projects under part FF of title I of the 
        Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 
        10631 et seq.), the requirements under section 2976(g)(1) of 
        such part (34 U.S.C. 10631(g)(1)).
            (2) For grants to protect inmates and safeguard communities 
        as authorized by section 6 of the Prison Rape Elimination Act 
        of 2003 (34 U.S.C. 30305(c)(3)), the requirements of section 
        6(c)(3) of such Act.
    Sec. 214.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, section 
20109(a) of subtitle A of title II of the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12109(a)) shall not apply to amounts 
made available by this or any other Act.
    Sec. 215.  None of the funds made available under this Act, other 
than for the national instant criminal background check system 
established under section 103 of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention 
Act (34 U.S.C. 40901), may be used by a Federal law enforcement officer 
to facilitate the transfer of an operable firearm to an individual if 
the Federal law enforcement officer knows or suspects that the 
individual is an agent of a drug cartel, unless law enforcement 
personnel of the United States continuously monitor or control the 
firearm at all times.
    Sec. 216. (a) None of the income retained in the Department of 
Justice Working Capital Fund pursuant to title I of Public Law 102-140 
(105 Stat. 784; 28 U.S.C. 527 note) shall be available for obligation 
during fiscal year 2020, except up to $12,000,000 may be obligated for 
implementation of a unified Department of Justice financial management 
system.
    (b) Not to exceed $30,000,000 of the unobligated balances 
transferred to the capital account of the Department of Justice Working 
Capital Fund pursuant to title I of Public Law 102-140 (105 Stat. 784; 
28 U.S.C. 527 note) shall be available for obligation in fiscal year 
2020, and any use, obligation, transfer or allocation of such funds 
shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this 
Act.
    (c) Not to exceed $10,000,000 of the excess unobligated balances 
available under section 524(c)(8)(E) of title 28, United States Code, 
shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 2020, and any use, 
obligation, transfer or allocation of such funds shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act.
    Sec. 217.  Discretionary funds that are made available in this Act 
for the Office of Justice Programs may be used to participate in 
Performance Partnership Pilots authorized under section 526 of division 
H of Public Law 113-76, section 524 of division G of Public Law 113-
235, section 525 of division H of Public Law 114-113, and such 
authorities as are enacted for Performance Partnership Pilots in an 
appropriations Act for fiscal years 2019 and 2020.
    Sec. 218.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Executive Office for Immigration Review to implement case 
performance numeric metrics that are linked to performance evaluations 
for individual immigration judges.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Justice 
Appropriations Act, 2020''.

                               TITLE III

                                SCIENCE

                Office of Science and Technology Policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy, in carrying out the purposes of the National Science and 
Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 
6601 et seq.), hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, not to 
exceed $2,250 for official reception and representation expenses, and 
rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia, $5,000,000.

                         National Space Council

    For necessary expenses of the National Space Council, in carrying 
out the purposes of Title V of Public Law 100-685 and Executive Order 
No. 13803, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as authorized 
by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, not to exceed $2,250 
for official reception and representation expenses, $1,870,000:  
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the National 
Space Council may accept personnel support from Federal agencies, 
departments, and offices, and such Federal agencies, departments, and 
offices may detail staff without reimbursement to the National Space 
Council for purposes provided herein.

             National Aeronautics and Space Administration

                                science

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of science research and development activities, including 
research, development, operations, support, and services; maintenance 
and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, spacecraft 
control, and communications activities; program management; personnel 
and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $7,161,300,000 (reduced by $1,000,000) 
(increased by $1,000,000), to remain available until September 30, 
2021:  Provided, That, of the amounts provided, $592,600,000 is for an 
orbiter to meet the science goals for the Jupiter Europa mission as 
recommended in previous Planetary Science Decadal surveys:  Provided 
further, That the National Aeronautics and Space Administration shall 
use the Space Launch System as the launch vehicles for the Jupiter 
Europa missions, plan for an orbiter launch no later than 2023 and a 
lander launch no later than 2025, and include in the fiscal year 2021 
budget the 5-year funding profile necessary to achieve these goals.

                              aeronautics

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of aeronautics research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $700,000,000 (increased by $20,000,000) 
(reduced by $20,000,000), to remain available until September 30, 2021.

                            space technology

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of space technology research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $1,291,600,000 (reduced by $6,500,000) 
(increased by $6,500,000), to remain available until September 30, 
2021:  Provided, That $180,000,000 shall be for RESTORE-L:  Provided 
further, That $125,000,000 (increased by $1) (reduced by $1) shall be 
for nuclear thermal propulsion technologies:  Provided further, That, 
not later than 180 days after the enactment of this Act, the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) shall provide a plan for 
the design of a flight demonstration.

                              exploration

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of exploration research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $5,129,900,000 (increased by $1,000,000) 
(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,969) (reduced by $1,969), to 
remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That not less 
than $1,425,000,000 shall be for the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle:  
Provided further, That not less than $2,150,000,000 shall be for the 
Space Launch System (SLS) launch vehicle, which shall have a lift 
capability not less than 130 metric tons and which shall have core 
elements and an Exploration Upper Stage developed simultaneously, to be 
used to the maximum extent practicable, including for Earth to Moon 
missions and a Moon landing:  Provided further, That of the amounts 
provided for SLS, not less than $200,000,000 shall be for Exploration 
Upper Stage development:  Provided further, That $592,800,000 shall be 
for Exploration Ground Systems, including $50,000,000 for a second 
mobile launch platform and associated SLS activities:  Provided 
further, That the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) 
shall provide to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, concurrent with the annual budget 
submission, a 5-year budget profile for an integrated system that 
includes the Space Launch System, the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle, 
and associated ground systems that will ensure an Exploration Mission-2 
crewed launch as early as possible, as well as a system-based funding 
profile for a sustained launch cadence beyond the initial crewed test 
launch:  Provided further, That $962,100,000 shall be for exploration 
research and development.

                            space operations

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of space operations research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support and services; 
space flight, spacecraft control and communications activities, 
including operations, production, and services; maintenance and repair, 
facility planning and design; program management; personnel and related 
costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 
sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; travel expenses; 
purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, 
charter, maintenance and operation of mission and administrative 
aircraft, $4,285,700,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021.

      science, technology, engineering, and mathematics engagement

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of aerospace and aeronautical education research and 
development activities, including research, development, operations, 
support, and services; program management; personnel and related costs, 
including uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by sections 
5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; travel expenses; purchase 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, 
maintenance, and operation of mission and administrative aircraft, 
$123,000,000 (increased by $1,000,000), to remain available until 
September 30, 2021, of which $25,000,000 shall be for the Established 
Program to Stimulate Competitive Research and $48,000,000 (increased by 
$1,000,000) shall be for the National Space Grant College and 
Fellowship Program.

                 safety, security and mission services

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of science, aeronautics, space technology, exploration, 
space operations and education research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to 
exceed $63,000 for official reception and representation expenses; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $3,084,600,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021.

       construction and environmental compliance and restoration

    For necessary expenses for construction of facilities including 
repair, rehabilitation, revitalization, and modification of facilities, 
construction of new facilities and additions to existing facilities, 
facility planning and design, and restoration, and acquisition or 
condemnation of real property, as authorized by law, and environmental 
compliance and restoration, $497,200,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2025:  Provided, That proceeds from leases deposited into 
this account shall be available for a period of 5 years to the extent 
and in amounts as provided in annual appropriations Acts:  Provided 
further, That such proceeds referred to in the preceding proviso shall 
be available for obligation for fiscal year 2020 in an amount not to 
exceed $17,000,000:  Provided further, That each annual budget request 
shall include an annual estimate of gross receipts and collections and 
proposed use of all funds collected pursuant to section 20145 of title 
51, United States Code.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, $41,700,000, of which 
$500,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2021.

                       administrative provisions

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Funds for any announced prize otherwise authorized shall remain 
available, without fiscal year limitation, until a prize is claimed or 
the offer is withdrawn.
    Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration in this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations, but no such appropriation, except as otherwise 
specifically provided, shall be increased by more than 10 percent by 
any such transfers. Balances so transferred shall be merged with and 
available for the same purposes and the same time period as the 
appropriations to which transferred. Any transfer pursuant to this 
provision shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 
505 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    The spending plan required by this Act shall be provided by NASA at 
the theme, program, project and activity level. The spending plan, as 
well as any subsequent change of an amount established in that spending 
plan that meets the notification requirements of section 505 of this 
Act, shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 of this Act 
and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                      National Science Foundation

                    research and related activities

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), and Public Law 86-209 
(42 U.S.C. 1880 et seq.); services as authorized by section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code; maintenance and operation of aircraft and 
purchase of flight services for research support; acquisition of 
aircraft; and authorized travel; $7,106,301,000 (increased by 
$5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000) (reduced by $1,200,000) (increased 
by $1,200,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000), to 
remain available until September 30, 2021, of which not to exceed 
$544,000,000 shall remain available until expended for polar research 
and operations support, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies 
for operational and science support and logistical and other related 
activities for the United States Antarctic program:  Provided, That 
receipts for scientific support services and materials furnished by the 
National Research Centers and other National Science Foundation 
supported research facilities may be credited to this appropriation.

          major research equipment and facilities construction

    For necessary expenses for the acquisition, construction, 
commissioning, and upgrading of major research equipment, facilities, 
and other such capital assets pursuant to the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), including authorized 
travel, $223,230,000, to remain available until expended.

                     education and human resources

    For necessary expenses in carrying out science, mathematics and 
engineering education and human resources programs and activities 
pursuant to the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 
et seq.), including services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, 
United States Code, authorized travel, and rental of conference rooms 
in the District of Columbia, $950,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021.

                 agency operations and award management

    For agency operations and award management necessary in carrying 
out the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et 
seq.); services authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code; hire of passenger motor vehicles; uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United 
States Code; rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia; 
and reimbursement of the Department of Homeland Security for security 
guard services; $336,890,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $8,280 is 
for official reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, 
That contracts may be entered into under this heading in fiscal year 
2020 for maintenance and operation of facilities and for other services 
to be provided during the next fiscal year.

                  office of the national science board

    For necessary expenses (including payment of salaries, authorized 
travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia, and the employment of experts and 
consultants under section 3109 of title 5, United States Code) involved 
in carrying out section 4 of the National Science Foundation Act of 
1950 (42 U.S.C. 1863) and Public Law 86-209 (42 U.S.C. 1880 et seq.), 
$4,370,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General as 
authorized by the Inspector General Act of 1978, $15,350,000, of which 
$400,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2021.

                       administrative provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the National Science Foundation in this Act may 
be transferred between such appropriations, but no such appropriation 
shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers. Any 
transfer pursuant to this paragraph shall be treated as a reprogramming 
of funds under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section.
    The Director of the National Science Foundation (NSF) shall notify 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate at least 30 days in advance of any planned divestment 
through transfer, decommissioning, termination, or deconstruction of 
any NSF-owned facilities or any NSF capital assets (including land, 
structures, and equipment) valued greater than $2,500,000.
    This title may be cited as the ``Science Appropriations Act, 
2020''.

                                TITLE IV

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                       Commission on Civil Rights

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Civil Rights, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $10,500,000:  Provided, That none of 
the funds appropriated in this paragraph may be used to employ any 
individuals under Schedule C of subpart C of part 213 of title 5 of the 
Code of Federal Regulations exclusive of one special assistant for each 
Commissioner:  Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in 
this paragraph shall be used to reimburse Commissioners for more than 
75 billable days, with the exception of the chairperson, who is 
permitted 125 billable days:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph shall be used for any activity or 
expense that is not explicitly authorized by section 3 of the Civil 
Rights Commission Act of 1983 (42 U.S.C. 1975a):  Provided further, 
That the Chair is authorized to accept and use any gift or donation to 
carry out the work of the Commission.

                Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission as authorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 
the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Equal Pay Act of 
1963, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, section 501 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Genetic 
Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) of 2008 (Public Law 110-233), 
the ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-325), and the Lilly 
Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-2), including services 
as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles as authorized by section 1343(b) of title 31, 
United States Code; nonmonetary awards to private citizens; and up to 
$29,500,000 for payments to State and local enforcement agencies for 
authorized services to the Commission, $399,500,000:  Provided, That 
the Commission is authorized to make available for official reception 
and representation expenses not to exceed $2,250 from available funds:  
Provided further, That the Commission may take no action to implement 
any workforce repositioning, restructuring, or reorganization until 
such time as the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate have been notified of such proposals, in 
accordance with the reprogramming requirements of section 505 of this 
Act:  Provided further, That the Chair is authorized to accept and use 
any gift or donation to carry out the work of the Commission.

                     International Trade Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the International Trade Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized 
by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, and not to exceed 
$2,250 for official reception and representation expenses, 
$101,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                       Legal Services Corporation

               payment to the legal services corporation

    For payment to the Legal Services Corporation to carry out the 
purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974, $550,000,000, 
of which $509,500,000 is for basic field programs and required 
independent audits; $5,100,000 is for the Office of Inspector General, 
of which such amounts as may be necessary may be used to conduct 
additional audits of recipients; $23,400,000 is for management and 
grants oversight; $5,000,000 is for client self-help and information 
technology; $5,000,000 is for a Pro Bono Innovation Fund; and 
$2,000,000 is for loan repayment assistance:  Provided, That the Legal 
Services Corporation may continue to provide locality pay to officers 
and employees at a rate no greater than that provided by the Federal 
Government to Washington, DC-based employees as authorized by section 
5304 of title 5, United States Code, notwithstanding section 1005(d) of 
the Legal Services Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 2996d(d)):  Provided 
further, That the authorities provided in section 205 of this Act shall 
be applicable to the Legal Services Corporation:  Provided further, 
That, for the purposes of section 505 of this Act, the Legal Services 
Corporation shall be considered an agency of the United States 
Government.

          administrative provision--legal services corporation

    None of the funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal Services 
Corporation shall be expended for any purpose prohibited or limited by, 
or contrary to any of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504, 
505, and 506 of Public Law 105-119, and all funds appropriated in this 
Act to the Legal Services Corporation shall be subject to the same 
terms and conditions set forth in such sections, except that all 
references in sections 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be deemed to 
refer instead to 2019 and 2020, respectively.

                        Marine Mammal Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Marine Mammal Commission as 
authorized by title II of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 
U.S.C. 1361 et seq.), $3,616,000.

            Office of the United States Trade Representative

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the United States Trade 
Representative, including the hire of passenger motor vehicles and the 
employment of experts and consultants as authorized by section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code, $57,000,000 (increased by $1,000,000) 
(reduced by $1,000,000), of which $1,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That of the total amount made available 
under this heading, not to exceed $124,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                      trade enforcement trust fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For activities of the United States Trade Representative authorized 
by section 611 of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 
2015 (19 U.S.C. 4405), including transfers, $15,000,000, to be derived 
from the Trade Enforcement Trust Fund:  Provided, That any transfer 
pursuant to subsection (d)(1) of such section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming under section 505 of this Act.

                        State Justice Institute

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the State Justice Institute, as 
authorized by the State Justice Institute Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10701 
et seq.) $6,555,000, of which $500,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2021:  Provided, That not to exceed $2,250 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses:  Provided 
further, That, for the purposes of section 505 of this Act, the State 
Justice Institute shall be considered an agency of the United States 
Government.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                        (including rescissions)

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 501.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by the 
Congress.
    Sec. 502.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 503.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.
    Sec. 504.  If any provision of this Act or the application of such 
provision to any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the 
remainder of the Act and the application of each provision to persons 
or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid shall 
not be affected thereby.
    Sec. 505.  None of the funds provided under this Act, or provided 
under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act 
that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 
2020, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure 
through a reprogramming of funds that: (1) creates or initiates a new 
program, project or activity; (2) eliminates a program, project or 
activity; (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any project 
or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted; (4) 
relocates an office or employees; (5) reorganizes or renames offices, 
programs or activities; (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions 
or activities presently performed by Federal employees; (7) augments 
existing programs, projects or activities in excess of $500,000 or 10 
percent, whichever is less, or reduces by 10 percent funding for any 
program, project or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent; or 
(8) results from any general savings, including savings from a 
reduction in personnel, which would result in a change in existing 
programs, projects or activities as approved by Congress; unless the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days in 
advance of such reprogramming of funds.
    Sec. 506. (a) If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to 
receive any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in 
this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility 
procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code 
of Federal Regulations.
    (b)(1) To the extent practicable, with respect to authorized 
purchases of promotional items, funds made available by this Act shall 
be used to purchase items that are manufactured, produced, or assembled 
in the United States, its territories or possessions.
    (2) The term ``promotional items'' has the meaning given the term 
in OMB Circular A-87, Attachment B, Item (1)(f)(3).
    Sec. 507. (a) The Departments of Commerce and Justice, the National 
Science Foundation, and the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration shall provide to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate a quarterly report on the 
status of balances of appropriations at the account level. For 
unobligated, uncommitted balances and unobligated, committed balances 
the quarterly reports shall separately identify the amounts 
attributable to each source year of appropriation from which the 
balances were derived. For balances that are obligated, but unexpended, 
the quarterly reports shall separately identify amounts by the year of 
obligation.
    (b) The report described in subsection (a) shall be submitted 
within 30 days of the end of each quarter.
    (c) If a department or agency is unable to fulfill any aspect of a 
reporting requirement described in subsection (a) due to a limitation 
of a current accounting system, the department or agency shall fulfill 
such aspect to the maximum extent practicable under such accounting 
system and shall identify and describe in each quarterly report the 
extent to which such aspect is not fulfilled.
    Sec. 508.  Any costs incurred by a department or agency funded 
under this Act resulting from, or to prevent, personnel actions taken 
in response to funding reductions included in this Act shall be 
absorbed within the total budgetary resources available to such 
department or agency:  Provided, That the authority to transfer funds 
between appropriations accounts as may be necessary to carry out this 
section is provided in addition to authorities included elsewhere in 
this Act:  Provided further, That use of funds to carry out this 
section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section:  
Provided further, That for the Department of Commerce, this section 
shall also apply to actions taken for the care and protection of loan 
collateral or grant property.
    Sec. 509.  None of the funds provided by this Act shall be 
available to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products, 
or to seek the reduction or removal by any foreign country of 
restrictions on the marketing of tobacco or tobacco products, except 
for restrictions which are not applied equally to all tobacco or 
tobacco products of the same type.
    Sec. 510.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, amounts 
deposited or available in the Fund established by section 1402 of 
chapter XIV of title II of Public Law 98-473 (34 U.S.C. 20101) in any 
fiscal year in excess of $2,838,000,000 shall not be available for 
obligation until the following fiscal year:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 1402(d) of such Act, of the amounts available 
from the Fund for obligation: (1) $10,000,000 shall be transferred to 
the ``Department of Justice, Office of Inspector General'' account for 
oversight and auditing purposes associated with this section; and (2) 5 
percent shall be available to the Office for Victims of Crime for 
grants, consistent with the requirements of the Victims of Crime Act, 
to Indian tribes to improve services for victims of crime.
    Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Justice in this Act may be used to discriminate against or denigrate 
the religious or moral beliefs of students who participate in programs 
for which financial assistance is provided from those funds, or of the 
parents or legal guardians of such students.
    Sec. 512.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 513. (a) The Inspectors General of the Department of Commerce, 
the Department of Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration, the National Science Foundation, and the Legal Services 
Corporation shall conduct audits, pursuant to the Inspector General Act 
(5 U.S.C. App.), of grants or contracts for which funds are 
appropriated by this Act, and shall submit reports to Congress on the 
progress of such audits, which may include preliminary findings and a 
description of areas of particular interest, within 180 days after 
initiating such an audit and every 180 days thereafter until any such 
audit is completed.
    (b) Within 60 days after the date on which an audit described in 
subsection (a) by an Inspector General is completed, the Secretary, 
Attorney General, Administrator, Director, or President, as 
appropriate, shall make the results of the audit available to the 
public on the Internet website maintained by the Department, 
Administration, Foundation, or Corporation, respectively. The results 
shall be made available in redacted form to exclude--
            (1) any matter described in section 552(b) of title 5, 
        United States Code; and
            (2) sensitive personal information for any individual, the 
        public access to which could be used to commit identity theft 
        or for other inappropriate or unlawful purposes.
    (c) Any person awarded a grant or contract funded by amounts 
appropriated by this Act shall submit a statement to the Secretary of 
Commerce, the Attorney General, the Administrator, Director, or 
President, as appropriate, certifying that no funds derived from the 
grant or contract will be made available through a subcontract or in 
any other manner to another person who has a financial interest in the 
person awarded the grant or contract.
    (d) The provisions of the preceding subsections of this section 
shall take effect 30 days after the date on which the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget, in consultation with the Director of 
the Office of Government Ethics, determines that a uniform set of rules 
and requirements, substantially similar to the requirements in such 
subsections, consistently apply under the executive branch ethics 
program to all Federal departments, agencies, and entities.
    Sec. 514. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act may be used by the Departments of Commerce and 
Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, or the 
National Science Foundation to acquire a high-impact or moderate-impact 
information system, as defined for security categorization in the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology's (NIST) Federal 
Information Processing Standard Publication 199, ``Standards for 
Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information 
Systems'' unless the agency has--
            (1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the information 
        systems against criteria developed by NIST and the Federal 
        Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to inform acquisition decisions 
        for high-impact and moderate-impact information systems within 
        the Federal Government;
            (2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the presumptive 
        awardee against available and relevant threat information 
        provided by the FBI and other appropriate agencies; and
            (3) in consultation with the FBI or other appropriate 
        Federal entity, conducted an assessment of any risk of cyber-
        espionage or sabotage associated with the acquisition of such 
        system, including any risk associated with such system being 
        produced, manufactured, or assembled by one or more entities 
        identified by the United States Government as posing a cyber 
        threat, including but not limited to, those that may be owned, 
        directed, or subsidized by the People's Republic of China, the 
        Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's Republic of 
        Korea, or the Russian Federation.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
under this Act may be used to acquire a high-impact or moderate-impact 
information system reviewed and assessed under subsection (a) unless 
the head of the assessing entity described in subsection (a) has--
            (1) developed, in consultation with NIST, the FBI, and 
        supply chain risk management experts, a mitigation strategy for 
        any identified risks;
            (2) determined, in consultation with NIST and the FBI, that 
        the acquisition of such system is in the national interest of 
        the United States; and
            (3) reported that determination to the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
        and the agency Inspector General.
    Sec. 515.  None of the funds made available in this Act shall be 
used in any way whatsoever to support or justify the use of torture by 
any official or contract employee of the United States Government.
    Sec. 516.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to include in any new bilateral or multilateral trade agreement the 
text of--
            (1) paragraph 2 of article 16.7 of the United States-
        Singapore Free Trade Agreement;
            (2) paragraph 4 of article 17.9 of the United States-
        Australia Free Trade Agreement; or
            (3) paragraph 4 of article 15.9 of the United States-
        Morocco Free Trade Agreement.
    Sec. 517.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to authorize or issue a national security letter in contravention of 
any of the following laws authorizing the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation to issue national security letters: The Right to 
Financial Privacy Act of 1978; The Electronic Communications Privacy 
Act of 1986; The Fair Credit Reporting Act; The National Security Act 
of 1947; USA PATRIOT Act; USA FREEDOM Act of 2015; and the laws amended 
by these Acts.
    Sec. 518.  If at any time during any quarter, the program manager 
of a project within the jurisdiction of the Departments of Commerce or 
Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, or the 
National Science Foundation totaling more than $75,000,000 has 
reasonable cause to believe that the total program cost has increased 
by 10 percent or more, the program manager shall immediately inform the 
respective Secretary, Administrator, or Director. The Secretary, 
Administrator, or Director shall notify the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations within 30 days in writing of such increase, and shall 
include in such notice: the date on which such determination was made; 
a statement of the reasons for such increases; the action taken and 
proposed to be taken to control future cost growth of the project; 
changes made in the performance or schedule milestones and the degree 
to which such changes have contributed to the increase in total program 
costs or procurement costs; new estimates of the total project or 
procurement costs; and a statement validating that the project's 
management structure is adequate to control total project or 
procurement costs.
    Sec. 519.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence or intelligence related 
activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
purposes of section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3094) during fiscal year 2020 until the enactment of the Intelligence 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 2020.
    Sec. 520.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to enter into a contract in an amount 
greater than $5,000,000 or to award a grant in excess of such amount 
unless the prospective contractor or grantee certifies in writing to 
the agency awarding the contract or grant that, to the best of its 
knowledge and belief, the contractor or grantee has filed all Federal 
tax returns required during the three years preceding the 
certification, has not been convicted of a criminal offense under the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and has not, more than 90 days prior to 
certification, been notified of any unpaid Federal tax assessment for 
which the liability remains unsatisfied, unless the assessment is the 
subject of an installment agreement or offer in compromise that has 
been approved by the Internal Revenue Service and is not in default, or 
the assessment is the subject of a non-frivolous administrative or 
judicial proceeding.

                             (rescissions)

    Sec. 521. (a) Of the unobligated balances available to the 
Department of Justice, the following funds are hereby rescinded, not 
later than September 30, 2020, from the following accounts in the 
specified amounts--
            (1) ``Working Capital Fund'', $100,000,000;
            (2) ``Federal Bureau of Investigation, Salaries and 
        Expenses'', $60,000,000 including from, but not limited to, 
        fees collected to defray expenses for the automation of 
        fingerprint identification and criminal justice information 
        services and associated costs; and
            (3) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities, Office of 
        Justice Programs'', $85,000,000.
    (b) The Department of Justice shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report 
no later than September 1, 2020, specifying the amount of each 
rescission made pursuant to subsection (a).
    (c) The amounts rescinded in subsection (a) shall not be from 
amounts that were designated by the Congress as an emergency or 
disaster relief requirement pursuant to the concurrent resolution on 
the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985.
    Sec. 522.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to purchase first class or premium airline travel in contravention of 
sections 301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41 of the Code of 
Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 523.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more than 50 employees 
from a Federal department or agency, who are stationed in the United 
States, at any single conference occurring outside the United States 
unless such conference is a law enforcement training or operational 
conference for law enforcement personnel and the majority of Federal 
employees in attendance are law enforcement personnel stationed outside 
the United States.
    Sec. 524.  The Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
shall instruct any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving funds appropriated under this Act to track undisbursed 
balances in expired grant accounts and include in its annual 
performance plan and performance and accountability reports the 
following:
            (1) Details on future action the department, agency, or 
        instrumentality will take to resolve undisbursed balances in 
        expired grant accounts.
            (2) The method that the department, agency, or 
        instrumentality uses to track undisbursed balances in expired 
        grant accounts.
            (3) Identification of undisbursed balances in expired grant 
        accounts that may be returned to the Treasury of the United 
        States.
            (4) In the preceding 3 fiscal years, details on the total 
        number of expired grant accounts with undisbursed balances (on 
        the first day of each fiscal year) for the department, agency, 
        or instrumentality and the total finances that have not been 
        obligated to a specific project remaining in the accounts.
    Sec. 525.  To the extent practicable, funds made available in this 
Act should be used to purchase light bulbs that are ``Energy Star'' 
qualified or have the ``Federal Energy Management Program'' 
designation.
    Sec. 526. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the 
Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), or the National Space 
Council (NSC) to develop, design, plan, promulgate, implement, or 
execute a bilateral policy, program, order, or contract of any kind to 
participate, collaborate, or coordinate bilaterally in any way with 
China or any Chinese-owned company unless such activities are 
specifically authorized by a law enacted after the date of enactment of 
this Act.
    (b) None of the funds made available by this Act may be used to 
effectuate the hosting of official Chinese visitors at facilities 
belonging to or utilized by NASA.
    (c) The limitations described in subsections (a) and (b) shall not 
apply to activities which NASA, OSTP, or NSC, after consultation with 
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, have certified--
            (1) pose no risk of resulting in the transfer of 
        technology, data, or other information with national security 
        or economic security implications to China or a Chinese-owned 
        company; and
            (2) will not involve knowing interactions with officials 
        who have been determined by the United States to have direct 
        involvement with violations of human rights.
    (d) Any certification made under subsection (c) shall be submitted 
to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, no later than 30 
days prior to the activity in question and shall include a description 
of the purpose of the activity, its agenda, its major participants, and 
its location and timing.
    Sec. 527. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, adjudication, or other law enforcement- or victim 
assistance-related activity.
    Sec. 528.  The Departments of Commerce and Justice, the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration, the National Science Foundation, 
the Commission on Civil Rights, the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission, the International Trade Commission, the Legal Services 
Corporation, the Marine Mammal Commission, the Offices of Science and 
Technology Policy and the United States Trade Representative, the 
National Space Council, and the State Justice Institute shall submit 
spending plans, signed by the respective department or agency head, to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate within 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 529.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, none of 
the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be 
used to pay award or incentive fees for contractor performance that has 
been judged to be below satisfactory performance or for performance 
that does not meet the basic requirements of a contract.
    Sec. 530.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 7606 (``Legitimacy of Industrial Hemp 
Research'') of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-79) by the 
Department of Justice or the Drug Enforcement Administration.
    Sec. 531.  None of the funds made available under this Act to the 
Department of Justice may be used, with respect to any of the States of 
Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, 
Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, 
Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, 
Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New 
Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, 
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, 
Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming, 
or with respect to the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of the 
Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, or Puerto Rico, to prevent any of them 
from implementing their own laws that authorize the use, distribution, 
possession, or cultivation of medical marijuana.
    Sec. 532.  The Department of Commerce, the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration, and the National Science Foundation shall provide 
a quarterly report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate on any official travel to China by any 
employee of such Department or agency, including the purpose of such 
travel.
    Sec. 533.  Of the amounts made available by this Act, not less than 
10 percent of each total amount provided, respectively, for Public 
Works grants authorized by the Public Works and Economic Development 
Act of 1965 and grants authorized by section 27 of the Stevenson-Wydler 
Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722) shall be allocated 
for assistance in persistent poverty counties:  Provided, That for 
purposes of this section, the term ``persistent poverty counties'' 
means any county that has had 20 percent or more of its population 
living in poverty over the past 30 years, as measured by the 1990 and 
2000 decennial censuses and the most recent Small Area Income and 
Poverty Estimates, or any territory or possession of the United States.
    Sec. 534.  None of the funds made available in this Act or any 
other Act may be used by the Department of Commerce to incorporate into 
the 2020 Decennial Census any question that was not included in the 
2018 End-to-End Census Test in Providence County, Rhode Island.
    Sec. 535.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to relocate the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives 
(ATF) Canine Training Center or the ATF National Canine Division.
    Sec. 536.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as referring 
only to the provisions of this division.
    Sec. 537.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this Act'' 
contained in this division shall be treated as a reference to House 
Report 116-101. The effect of such Report shall be limited to this 
division and shall apply for purposes of determining the allocation of 
funds provided by, and the implementation of, this division.
    Sec. 538.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to carry out section 3622(c)(2) of title 18, United States Code.
    Sec. 539. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be made available to enter into any new 
contract, grant, or cooperative agreement with any entity listed in 
subsection (b).
    (b) The entities listed in this subsection are the following:


 
 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Trump International Hotel & Tower     Trump International Hotel & Golf      Trump International Hotel Las Vegas,
 Chicago, Chicago, IL                  Links Ireland (formerly The Lodge     Las Vegas, NV
                                       at Doonbeg), Doonbeg, Ireland
Trump National Doral Miami, Miami,    Trump International Hotel & Tower     Trump SoHo New York, New York City,
 FL                                    New York, New York City, NY           NY
Trump International Hotel & Tower,    Trump International Hotel Waikiki,    Trump International Hotel
 Vancouver, Vancouver, Canada          Honolulu, HI                          Washington, DC
Trump Tower, 721 Fifth Avenue, New    Trump World Tower, 845 United         Trump Park Avenue, 502 Park Avenue,
 York City, New York                   Nations Plaza, New York City, New     New York City, New York
                                       York
Trump International Hotel & Tower,    Trump Parc East, 100 Central Park     Trump Palace, 200 East 69th Street,
 NY                                    South, New York City, New York        New York City, New York
Heritage, Trump Place, 240 Riverside  Trump Place, 220 Riverside Blvd, New  Trump Place, 200 Riverside Blvd, New
 Blvd, New York City, New York         York City, New York                   York City, New York
Trump Grande, Sunny Isles, FL         Trump Hollywood Florida, Hollywood,   Trump Plaza, New Rochelle, NY
                                       Florida
Trump Tower at City Center,           Trump Park Residences, Yorktown, NY   Trump Parc Stamford, Stamford,
 Westchester, NY                                                             Connecticut
Trump Plaza Residences, Jersey City,  The Estate at Trump National, Los     Trump Towers Pune, India, Pune,
 NJ                                    Angeles, CA                           India
Trump Tower Mumbai, India, Mumbai,    Trump Towers Makati, Philippines,     Trump International Vancouver,
 India                                 Makati, Philippines                   Vancouver, Canada
Trump Towers Istanbul, Sisli,         Trump Tower Punta Del Este, Uruguay,  ....................................
 Istanbul, Sisli                       Punta Sel Este, Uruguay
Briar Hall Operations LLC, New York,  DT Dubai Golf Manager LLC, New York,  DT Dubai Golf Manager Member Corp,
 New York                              New York                              New York, New York
DT Dubai II Golf Manager LLC, New     DT Home Marks International LLC, New  DT Home Marks International Member
 York, New York                        York, New York                        Corp, New York, New York
DT India Venture LLC, New York, New   DT India Venture Managing Member      DT Marks Baku LLC, New York, New
 York                                  Corp, New York, New York              York
DT Marks Baku Managing Member Corp,   DT Marks Dubai LLC, New York, New     DT Marks Dubai Member Corp, New
 New York, New York                    York                                  York, New York
DT Marks Dubai II LLC, New York, New  DT Marks Dubai II Member Corp, New    ....................................
 York                                  York, New York
DT Marks Gurgaon LLC, New York, New   DT Marks Gurgaon Managing Member      DT Marks Jersey City LLC, New York,
 York                                  Corp, New York, New York              New York
DT Marks Jupiter LLC, New York, New   DT Mark Qatar LLC, New York, New      DT Marks Qatar Member Corp, New
 York                                  York                                  York, New York
DT Marks Products International LLC,  DT Marks Product International        DT Marks Pune LLC, New York, New
 New York, New York                    Member Corp, New York, New York       York
DT Marks Pune Managing Member Corp,   DT MARKS PUNE II LLC, New York, New   DT Marks Pune II Managing Member
 New York, New York                    York                                  Corp, New York, New York
DT Marks Rio LLC, New York, New York  DT Marks Rio Member Corp, New York,   DT Marks Vancouver LP, New York, New
                                       New York                              York
DT Marks Vancouver Managing Member    DT Marks Worli LLC, New York, New     DT Marks Worli Member Corp, New
 Corp, New York, New York              York                                  York, New York
DT Tower Gurgaon LLC, New York, New   DT Tower Gurgaon Managing Member      Indian Hills Holdings LLC f/k/a
 York                                  Corp, New York, New York              Indian Hills Development LLC, New
                                                                             York, New York
Jupiter Golf Club LLC (Trump          Jupiter Golf Club Managing Member     Lamington Family Holdings LLC, New
 National Gold Club-Jupiter), New      Corp, New York, New York              York, New York
 York, New York
Lawrence Towers Apartments, New       LFB Acquisition LLC, New York, New    LFB Acquisition Member Corp, New
 York, New York                        York                                  York, New York
Mar A Lago Club, Inc, Palm Beach,     Mar A Lago Club, L.L.C, New York,     Nitto World Co, Limited, Turnberry,
 Florida                               New York                              Scotland
OPO Hotel Manager LLC, New York, New  OPO Hotel Manager Member Corp, New    OWO Developer LLC, New York, New
 York                                  York, New York                        York
TIGL Ireland Enterprises Limited      TIGL Ireland Management Limited,      Ace Entertainment Holdings Inc (f/k/
 (Trump International Golf Links-      Doonbeg, Ireland                      a Trump Casinos Inc and formerly
 Doonbeg), Doonbeg, Ireland                                                  Trump Taj Mahal, Inc), Atlantic
                                                                             City, NJ
Trump Chicago Commercial Member       Trump Chicago Commercial Manager      Trump Chicago Development LLC, New
 Corp, New York, New York              LLC, New York, New York               York, New York
Trump Chicago Hotel Member Corp, New  Trump Chicago Hotel Manager LLC, New  Trump Chicago Managing Member LLC,
 York, New York                        York, New York                        New York, New York
Trump Chicago Member LLC, New York,   Trump Chicago Residential Member      Trump Chicago Residential Manager
 New York                              Corp, New York, New York              LLC, New York, New York
Trump Chicago Retail LLC, New York,    Trump Chicago Retail Manager LLC,    Trump Chicago Retail Member Corp,
 New York                              New York, New York                    New York, New York
Trump Drinks Israel Holdings LLC,     Trump Drinks Israel Holdings Member   Trump Drinks Israel LLC, New York,
 New York, New York                    Corp, New York, New York              New York
Trump Drinks Israel Member Corp, New  Trump Endeavor 12 LLC (Trump          Trump Endeavor 12 Manager Corp, New
 York, New York                        National Doral), New York, New York   York, New York
Trump Golf Acquisitions LLC, New      Trump Golf Coco Beach LLC, New York,  Trump Golf Coco Beach Member Corp,
 York, New York                        New York                              New York, New York
Trump International Development LLC,  Trump International Golf Club LC      Trump International Golf Club
 New York, New York                    (Trump International Golf Club-       Scotland Limited, Aberdeen,
                                       Florida), New York, New York          Scotland
Trump International Golf Club, Inc,   Trump International Hotel and Tower   Trump International Hotel Hawaii
 Palm Beach, Florida                   Condominium, New York, New York       LLC, New York, New York
Trump International Hotels            Trump International Management Corp,  Trump Korean Projects LLC, New York,
 Management LLC, New York, New York    New York, New York                    New York
Trump Marks Atlanta LLC, New York,    Trump Marks Atlanta Member Corp, New  Trump Marks Baja Corp, New York, New
 New York                              York, New York                        York
Trump Marks Baja LLC, New York, New   Trump Marks Batumi, LLC, New York,    Trump Marks Beverages Corp, New
 York                                  New York                              York, New York
Trump Marks Beverages, LLC New York,  Trump Marks Canouan Corp, New York,   Trump Marks Canouan, LLC New York,
 New York                              New York                              New York
Trump Marks Chicago LLC, New York,    Trump Marks Chicago Member Corp, New  Trump Marks Dubai Corp, New York,
 New York                              York, New York                        New York
Trump Marks Dubai LLC, New York, New  Trump Marks Egypt Corp, New York,     Trump Marks Egypt LLC, New York, New
 York                                  New York                              York
Trump Marks Fine Foods LLC, New       Trump Marks Fine Foods Member Corp,   Trump Marks Ft. Lauderdale LLC, New
 York, New York                        New York, New York                    York, New York
Trump Marks Ft. Lauderdale Member     Trump Marks GP Corp, New York, New    Trump Marks Holding LP (FKA Trump
 Corp, New York, New York              York                                  Marks LP), New York, New York
Trump Marks Hollywood Corp, New       Trump Marks Hollywood LLC, New York,  Trump Marks Istanbul II Corp, New
 York, New York                        New York                              York, New York
Trump Marks Istanbul II LLC, New      Trump Marks Jersey City Corp, New     Trump Marks Jersey City LLC, New
 York, New York                        York, New York                        York, New York
Trump Marks Mattress LLC, New York,   Trump Marks Mattress Member Corp,     Trump Marks Menswear LLC, New York,
 New York                              New York, New York                    New York
Trump Marks Menswear Member Corp,     Trump Marks Mortgage Corp, New York,  Trump Marks Mtg LLC, New York, New
 New York, New York                    New York                              York
Trump Marks Mumbai LLC, New York,     Trump Marks Mumbai Member Corp, New   Trump Marks New Rochelle Corp, New
 New York                              York, New York                        York, New York
Trump Marks New Rochelle LLC, New     Trump Marks Palm Beach Corp, New      Trump Marks Palm Beach LLC, New
 York, New York                        York, New York                        York, New York
Trump Marks Panama Corp, New York,    Trump Marks Panama LLC, New York,     Trump Marks Philadelphia Corp, New
 New York                              New York                              York, New York
Trump Marks Philadelphia LLC, New      Trump Marks Philippines Corp, New    Trump Marks Philippines LLC, New
 York, New York                        York, New York                        York, New York
Trump Marks Products LLC, New York,   The Trump Organization, Inc, New      ....................................
 New York                              York, New York
Trump Marks Products Member Corp,     Trump Marks Puerto Rico I LLC, New    Trump Marks Puerto Rico I Member
 New York, New York                    York, New York                        Corp, New York, New York
Trump Marks Puerto Rico II LLC, New   Trump Marks Puerto Rico II Member     Trump Marks Punta del Este LLC, New
 York, New York                        Corp, New York, New York              York, New York
Trump Marks Punta del Este Manager    The Donald J. Trump Company LLC, New  The Trump Marks Real Estate Corp,
 Corp, New York, New York              York, New York                        New York, New York
Trump Marks SOHO License Corp, New    Trump Marks SOHO LLC, New York, New   Trump Marks Stamford LLC, New York,
 York, New York                        York                                  New York
Trump Marks Stamford Corp, New York,  Trump Marks Sunny Isles I LLC, New    Trump Marks Sunny Isles I Member
 New York                              York, New York                        Corp, New York, New York
Trump Marks Sunny Isles II LLC, New   Trump Marks Sunny Isles II Member     Trump Marks Tampa Corp, New York,
 York, New York                        Corp, New York, New York              New York
Trump Marks Tampa LLC, New York, New  Trump Marks Toronto Corp, New York,   Trump Marks Toronto LLC, New York,
 York                                  New York                              New York
Trump Marks Toronto LP (formally      Trump Marks Waikiki Corp, New York,   Trump Marks Waikiki LLC, New York,
 Trump Toronto Management LP), New     New York                              New York
 York, New York
Trump Marks Westchester Corp, New     Trump Marks Westchester LLC, New      Trump Marks White Plains LLC, New
 York, New York                        York, New York                        York, New York
Trump Miami Resort Management LLC,    Trump Miami Resort Management Member  Trump National Golf Club Colts Neck
 New York, New York                    Corp, New York, New York              LLC, New York, New York
Trump National Golf Club Colts Neck   Trump National Golf Club LLC (Trump   Trump National Golf Club Member
 Member Corp, New York, New York       National Golf Club- Westchester),     Corp, New York, New York
                                       New York, New York
Trump National Golf Club Washington   Trump National Golf Club Washington   ....................................
 DC LCC, New York, New York            DC Member Corp, New York, New York
                                      Trump Old Post Office LLC, New York,  Trump Old Post Office Member Corp,
                                       New York                              New York, New York
Trump On the Ocean LLC, New York,     Trump Organization LLC, New York,     The Trump Organization, New York,
 New York                              New York                              New York
Trump Pageants, Inc, New York, New    Trump Palace Condominium, New York,   Trump Palace/Parc LLC, New York, New
 York                                  New York                              York
Trump Panama Condominium Management   Trump Panama Condominium Member       Trump Panama Hotel Management LLC,
 LLC, New York, New York               Corp, New York, New York              New York, New York
Trump Panama Hotel Management Member  Trump Parc East Condominium, New      Trump Park Avenue Acquisition LLC,
 Corp, New York, New York              York, New York                        New York, New York
Trump Park Avenue LLC, New York, New  Trump Payroll Chicago LLC, New York,  Trump Payroll Corp, New York, New
 York                                  New York                              York
Trump Phoenix Development LLC, New    Trump Plaza LLC, New York, New York   Trump Plaza Member Inc (F/K/A Trump
 York, New York                                                              Plaza Corp), New York, New York
Trump Productions LLC (former Rancho   Trump Production Managing Member     Trump Project Manager Corp, New
 Lien LLC), New York, New York         Inc, New York, New York               York, New York
Trump Realty Services, LLc (f/k/a      Trump Restaurants LLC, New York,     Trump Riverside Management LLC, New
 Trump Mortgage Services LLC (03) &    New York                              York, New York
 Tower Mortgage Services LLC), Palm
 Beach, Florida
Trump Ruffin Commercial LLC, New       Trump Ruffin LLC, Las Vegas, NV      Trump Ruffin Tower I LLC, Las Vegas,
 York, New York                                                              NV
Trump Sales & Leasing Chicago LLC,    Trump Sales & Leasing Chicago Member  Trump Scotland Member Inc, Aberdeen,
 Chicago, IL                           Corp, Chicago, IL                     Scotland
Trump Scotsborough Square LLC,        Trump SoHo Hotel Condominium New      Trump SoHo Member LLC, New York, New
 Scotsborough Square, VA               York, New York, New York              York
Trump Toronto Hotel Member Corp, New  Trump Toronto Development Inc, New    Trump Toronto Member Corp (formally
 York, New York                        York, New York                        Trump Toronto Management Member
                                                                             Corp), New York, New York
Trump Tower Commercial LLC, New       Trump Tower Condominium Residential   Trump Tower Managing Member Inc, New
 York, New York                        Section, New York, New York           York, New York
Trump Village Construction Corp, New  Trump Vineyard Estates LLC, New       Trump Vineyard Estates Manager Corp,
 York, New York                        York, New York                        New York, New York
Trump Vineyard Estates Lot 3 Owner    Trump Virginia Acquisitions LLC (fka  Trump Virginia Acquisitions Manager
 LLC (F/K/A Eric Trump Land Holdings   Virginia Acquisitions LLC), New       Corp, New York, New York
 LLC), New York, New York              York, New York
Trump Virginia Lot 5 LLC, New York,   Trump Virginia Lot 5 Manager Corp,    Trump Wine Marks LLC, New York, New
 New York                              New York, New York                    York
Trump Wine Marks Member Corp, New     Trump World Productions LLC, New      Trump World Productions Manager
 York, New York                        York, New York                        Corp, New York, New York
Trump World Publications LLC, New     Trump/New World Property Management   Trump's Castle Management Corp,
 York, New York                        LLC, New York, New York               Atlantic City, NJ
Trump Marks White Plains Corp, New    Turnberry Scotland Managing Member    Turnberry Scotland LLC, Turnberry,
 York, New York                        Corp, Turnberry, Scotland             Scotland
TW Venture I LLC, Palm Beach,         TW Venture II LLC, Doonbeg, Ireland   TW Venture I Managing Member Corp,
 Florida                                                                     Palm Beach, Florida
TW Venture II Managing Member Corp,   Ultimate Air Corp, New York, New      Unit 2502 Enterprises Corp, Chicago,
 Doonbeg, Ireland                      York                                  IL
Unit 2502 Enterprises LLC, Chicago,   VH Property Corp (Trump National      VHPS LLC, Los Angeles, CA
 IL                                    Golf Club-Los Angeles), Los
                                       Angeles, CA
West Palm Operations LLC, WPB,        Wexford Hall Inc., New York, New      White Course LLC, Miami, FL
 Florida                               York
White Course Managing Member Corp,    Wilshire Hall LLC, New York, New      Wollman Rink Operations LLC, New
 Miami FL                              York                                  York, New York
Yorktown Real Estate LLC (F/K/A/      The Fred C. Trump December 16, 1976   The Fred C. Trump December 16, 1976
 Yorktown Development Associates       Trust- F/B/O Donald J. Trump, New     Trust- F/B/O Robert S. Trump, New
 LLC), New York, New York              York, New York                        York, New York
The Fred C. Trump December 16, 1976   Fred C. Trump GRAT Trust- F/B/O       Trust U/W/O Fred C. Trump- F/B/O
 Trust- F/B/O Elizabeth J. Trump,      Elizabeth Trump Grau, New York, New   Elizabeth Trump Grau, New York, New
 New York, New York                    York                                  York
Maryanne Trump GRAT Trust- F/B/O      Trust U/W/O Fred C. Trump- F/B/O the  The Donald J. Trump grantor Trust -
 Elizabeth Trump Grau, New York, New   grandchildren of Fred C. Trump, New   DJT is the Trustee Successor -
 York                                  York, New York                        Trustee is Donald J. Trump, Jr.,
                                                                             New York, New York
The Donald J. Trump Revocable Trust,  The Police Athletic League, Inc, New  DT Bali Golf Manager LLC, New York,
 New York, New York                    York, New York                        New York
DT Bali Golf Manager Member Corp,     DT Bali Hotel Manager LLC, New York,  DT Bali Hotel Manager Member Corp,
 New York, New York                    New York                              New York, New York
DT Bali Technical Services Manager    DT Bali Technical Services Manager    DT Connect Europe Limited,
 LLC, New York, New York               Member Corp, New York, New York       Turnberry, Scotland
DT Endeavor I LLC, New York, New      DT Endeavor I Member Corp, New York,  DT Lido Golf Manager LLC, New York,
 York                                  New York                              New York
DT Lido Golf Manager Member Corp,     DT Lido Hotel Manager LLC, New York,  DT Lido Hotel Manager Member Corp,
 New York, New York                    New York                              New York, New York
DT Marks Bali LLC, New York, New      DT Marks Bali Member Corp, New York,  DT Marks Lido LLC, New York, New
 York                                  New York                              York
DT Marks Lido Member Corp, New York,  DT Tower I LLC, New York, New York    DT Tower I Member Corp, New York,
 New York                                                                    New York
DT Tower II LLC, New York, New York   DT Tower II Member Corp, New York,    DT Tower Kolkata LLC, New York, New
                                       New York                              York
DT Tower Kolkata Managing Member      DT Venture I LLC, New York, New York  DT Venture I Member Corp, New York,
 Corp, New York, New York                                                    New York
DT Venture II LLC, New York, New      DT Venture II Member Corp, New York,  DTTM Operations LLC, New York, New
 York                                  New York                              York
DTTM Operations Managing Member, New  EID Venture II LLC, New York, New     EID Venture II Member Corp, New
 York, New York                        York                                  York, New York
THC DC Restaurant Hospitality LLC,    Lamington Farm Club (TRUMP NATIONAL   Mobile Payroll Construction LLC, New
 New York, New York                    GOLF CLUB-BEDMINSTER)*, Bedminster,   York, New York
                                       NJ
Mobile Payroll Construction Manager   C DEVELOPMENT VENTURES LLC, New       C DEVELOPMENT VENTURES MEMBER CORP,
 Corp, New York, New York              York, New York                        New York, New York
TC MARKS BUENOS AIRES LLC, New York,  WMTMF LLC, New York, New York         Midland Associates, New York, New
 New York                                                                    York
Miss Universe L.P., LLP (formerly     Trump Central Park West Corp, New     DT Marks Qatar LLC, New York, New
 Trump Pageants, L.P.), New York,      York, New York                        York
 New York
40 Wall Street LLC, New York, New     401 North Wabash Venture LLC,         809 North Canon LLC, Beverly Hills,
 York                                  Chicago, IL                           CA
Caribuslness Investments, S.R.L.,     County Properties, LLC, Norfolk, VA   DJT Aerospace LLC, New York, New
 Dominican Republic                                                          York
DJT Operations I LLC, New York, New   DT Connect II LLC, Palm Beach,        Excel Venture I LLC, St. Martin,
 York                                  Florida                               French West Indies
Fifty-Seventh Street Associates LLC,  Pine Hill Development LLC, Pine       Seven Springs LLC, Mt. Kisco, NY
 New York, New York                    Hill, NJ
Trump Turnberry , Turnberry,          The East 61 Street Company, LP, New   The Trump Corporation, New York, New
 Scotland                              York, New York                        York
TIHT Commercial LLC, New York, New    TIHT Holding Company LLC, New York,   Trump National Golf Club - Hudson
 York                                  New York                              Valley, Hopewell Junction, NY
Trump National Golf Club -            Trump National Golf Club -            Trump International Golf Links -
 Charlotte, Charlotte, NC              Philadelphia, Pine Hill, NJ           Scotland, Aberdeen, Scotland
Trump Las Vegas Development LLC, Las  Trump Marks Asia LLC, Sterling, VA    Trump Model Management LLC, New
 Vegas, NV                                                                   York, New York
Trump National Golf Club -            1125 South Ocean LLC, Palm Beach,     T Promotions LLC, New York, New York
 Washington DC, Potomac Falls, VA      Florida
HWA 555 Owners, LLC, San Francisco,   1290 Avenue of the Americas, A        Trump Tower Triplex, New York, New
 CA                                    Tenancy-In-Common, New York, New      York
                                       York
NIKIA DTW VENTURE LLC, Palm Beach,    THC Vancouver Management Corp,        TNGC Jupiter Management Corp,
 Florida                               Vancouver, Canada                     Jupiter, FL
Trump Toronto Hotel Management Corp,  Trump Management Inc., Manhasset, NY  THC Miami Restaurant Hospitality
 New York, New York                                                          LLC, Miami, FL
THC IMEA Development LLC, New York,   DT Lido Technical Services Manager    Trump Las Vegas Sales & Marketing,
 New York                              LLC, Lido, Indonesia                  Inc., Las Vegas, NV
Albemarle Estate, Charlottesville,    MacLeod House & Lodge, Aberdeen,      Trump Golf Links at Ferry Point, New
 VA                                    Scotland                              York City, New York
Trump International Golf Club,        Trump World Golf Club Dubai, UAE      Trump International Resort & Golf
 Dubai, UAE                                                                  Club Lido, Lido City, Indonesia
Seven Springs, Bedford, NY            Le Chateau des Palmiers, St. Martin,  Trump World, Seoul, South Korea
                                       French West Indies
Trump Towers, Sunny Isles, FL         ....................................  ....................................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Sec. 540.  None of the funds made available by this Act to the 
Department of Justice may be used to prevent the Virgin Islands from 
implementing its own law that authorizes the use, distribution, 
possession, or cultivation of medical marijuana.
    Sec. 541.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in contravention of the national standards for fishery conservation and 
management as set out in section 301 of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1851).
    Sec. 542.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the National Telecommunications and Information Administration to 
update a broadband availability map using only Form 477 data from the 
Federal Communications Commission.
    Sec. 543.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
for activities prohibited by the order issued by the Attorney General 
entitled ``Prohibition on Certain Federal Adoptions of Seizures by 
State and Local Law Enforcement Agencies'' (Order No. 3488-2015, dated 
January 16, 2015).
    Sec. 544.  None of the funds made available by this Act to the 
Department of Justice may be used to prevent any Indian tribe (as such 
term is defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and 
Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304)) from enacting or 
implementing tribal laws that authorize the use, distribution, 
possession, or cultivation of marijuana.
    Sec. 545.  None of the funds made available to the Bureau of the 
Census by this Act may be used in the contravention of section 9 of 
title 13, United States Code.
    Sec. 546.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to issue a proposed or final rule revising the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration's Federal consistency regulations at 15 Code 
Federal Regulations part 930 under Section 307(c) of the Coastal Zone 
Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1456(c)).
    Sec. 547.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used--
            (1) to allow or authorize the incidental taking of marine 
        mammals under section 101(a)(5)(A) or (D) of the Marine Mammal 
        Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1371(a)(5)(A) or (D)) for 
        geophysical or geological exploration for oil or gas (as those 
        terms are defined in 30 CFR 551.1), within the specific 
        geographic region described in ``Notice; issuance of five 
        incidental harassment authorizations'' published in the Federal 
        Register at 83 Fed. Reg. 63,268;
            (2) to provide an opinion from the Secretary of Commerce 
        under section 7(b) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
        U.S.C. 1536(b)), on how any such authorization affects an 
        endangered species or its critical habitat; or
            (3) to prepare or supplement an Environmental Impact 
        Statement or Environmental Assessment pursuant to the National 
        Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq., and its 
        associated regulations, in support of any such authorization.
    Sec. 548.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Bureau of the Census to use information or records received 
through data sharing agreements in contravention of existing law, 
including sections 9 and 214 of title 13, United States Code.
    Sec. 549.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to enforce the ``Memorandum for Federal Prosecutors Along the Southwest 
Border, Zero-tolerance for Offenses Under 8 U.S.C. 1325(a)'' issued by 
the Attorney General on April 6, 2018.
    Sec. 550.  None of the funds made available by this Act to the 
Department of Justice may be used, with respect to any of the States of 
Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, 
Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, 
Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, 
Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New 
Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, 
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, 
Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming, 
or with respect to the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of the 
Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Puerto Rico, or the United States 
Virgin Islands, to prevent any of them from implementing their own laws 
that authorize the use, distribution, possession, or cultivation of 
marijuana.
    Sec. 551.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Department of Justice to argue, in the conduct of any litigation 
to which the United States, or an agency or officer thereof is a party, 
that any provision of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 
(Public Law 111-148; 124 Stat. 119) or of the Health Care and Education 
Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-152), is unconstitutional or 
is invalid or unenforceable on any ground, including that certain 
provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act are not 
severable from section 5000A of that Act.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Commerce, Justice, Science, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2020''.

       DIVISION B--AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
     ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020

    The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for Agriculture, Rural 
Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                  Processing, Research, and Marketing

                        Office of the Secretary

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, $45,112,000 
(reduced by $3,600,000) (reduced by $5,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) 
(reduced by $500,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) (reduced by $12,500,000), 
of which not to exceed $4,850,000 (reduced by $1,000,000) shall be 
available for the Immediate Office of the Secretary; not to exceed 
$1,448,000 shall be available for the Office of Homeland Security; not 
to exceed $6,211,000 shall be available for the Office of Partnerships 
and Public Engagement, of which $1,500,000 shall be for 7 U.S.C. 
2279(c)(5); not to exceed $22,251,000 (reduced by $3,000,000) (reduced 
by $5,000,000) (reduced by $500,000) (reduced by $12,500,000) shall be 
available for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration, 
of which $21,376,000 (reduced by $3,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000) 
(reduced by $500,000) (reduced by $12,500,000) shall be available for 
Departmental Administration to provide for necessary expenses for 
management support services to offices of the Department and for 
general administration, security, repairs and alterations, and other 
miscellaneous supplies and expenses not otherwise provided for and 
necessary for the practical and efficient work of the Department:  
Provided, That funds made available by this Act to an agency in the 
Administration mission area for salaries and expenses are available to 
fund up to one administrative support staff for the Office; not to 
exceed $3,091,000 shall be available for the Office of Assistant 
Secretary for Congressional Relations and Intergovernmental Affairs to 
carry out the programs funded by this Act, including programs involving 
intergovernmental affairs and liaison within the executive branch; and 
not to exceed $7,261,000 (reduced by $600,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) 
shall be available for the Office of Communications:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to transfer funds 
appropriated for any office of the Office of the Secretary to any other 
office of the Office of the Secretary:  Provided further, That no 
appropriation for any office shall be increased or decreased by more 
than 5 percent:  Provided further, That not to exceed $22,000 of the 
amount made available under this paragraph for the Immediate Office of 
the Secretary shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses, not otherwise provided for, as determined by 
the Secretary:  Provided further, That the amount made available under 
this heading for Departmental Administration shall be reimbursed from 
applicable appropriations in this Act for travel expenses incident to 
the holding of hearings as required by 5 U.S.C. 551-558:  Provided 
further, That funds made available under this heading for the Office of 
the Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations and 
Intergovernmental Affairs may be transferred to agencies of the 
Department of Agriculture funded by this Act to maintain personnel at 
the agency level.

                          Executive Operations

                     office of the chief economist

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Economist, 
$21,013,000, of which $5,000,000 shall be for grants or cooperative 
agreements for policy research under 7 U.S.C. 3155.

                     office of hearings and appeals

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Hearings and Appeals, 
$15,222,000.

                 office of budget and program analysis

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Budget and Program 
Analysis, $9,525,000.

                Office of the Chief Information Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Information 
Officer, $101,400,000 (reduced by $3,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000) 
(reduced by $1,400,000) (reduced by $200,000) (reduced by $353,000) 
(reduced by $25,000,000) (reduced by $12,500,000).

                 Office of the Chief Financial Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Financial 
Officer, $6,028,000.

           Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Civil Rights, $901,000:  Provided, That funds made available by this 
Act to an agency in the Civil Rights mission area for salaries and 
expenses are available to fund up to one administrative support staff 
for the Office.

                         Office of Civil Rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $24,206,000.

                  Agriculture Buildings and Facilities

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public 
Law 92-313, including authorities pursuant to the 1984 delegation of 
authority from the Administrator of General Services to the Department 
of Agriculture under 40 U.S.C. 121, for programs and activities of the 
Department which are included in this Act, and for alterations and 
other actions needed for the Department and its agencies to consolidate 
unneeded space into configurations suitable for release to the 
Administrator of General Services, and for the operation, maintenance, 
improvement, and repair of Agriculture buildings and facilities, and 
for related costs, $331,114,000 (reduced by $1,000,000), to remain 
available until expended.

                     Hazardous Materials Management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Agriculture, to comply 
with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) and the Solid Waste Disposal Act 
(42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.), $5,288,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That appropriations and funds available herein to 
the Department for Hazardous Materials Management may be transferred to 
any agency of the Department for its use in meeting all requirements 
pursuant to the above Acts on Federal and non-Federal lands.

                      Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
including employment pursuant to the Inspector General Act of 1978 
(Public Law 95-452; 5 U.S.C. App.), $98,208,000 (increased by 
$1,000,000), including such sums as may be necessary for contracting 
and other arrangements with public agencies and private persons 
pursuant to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 
(Public Law 95-452; 5 U.S.C. App.), and including not to exceed 
$125,000 for certain confidential operational expenses, including the 
payment of informants, to be expended under the direction of the 
Inspector General pursuant to the Inspector General Act of 1978 (Public 
Law 95-452; 5 U.S.C. App.) and section 1337 of the Agriculture and Food 
Act of 1981 (Public Law 97-98).

                     Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$41,242,000 (reduced by $30,000,000).

                            Office of Ethics

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Ethics, $4,136,000.

  Office of the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Research, Education, and Economics, $800,000 (reduced by $1) (increased 
by $1):  Provided, That funds made available by this Act to an agency 
in the Research, Education, and Economics mission area for salaries and 
expenses are available to fund up to one administrative support staff 
for the Office.

                       Economic Research Service

    For necessary expenses of the Economic Research Service, 
$87,757,000 (reduced by $1) (increased by $1):  Provided, That the term 
``necessary expenses'' does not include any expenditure of funds to 
relocate the Economic Research Service outside the National Capital 
Region.

                National Agricultural Statistics Service

    For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural Statistics 
Service, $180,794,000, of which up to $45,300,000 shall be available 
until expended for the Census of Agriculture:  Provided, That amounts 
made available for the Census of Agriculture may be used to conduct 
Current Industrial Report surveys subject to 7 U.S.C. 2204g(d) and (f).

                     Agricultural Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Agricultural Research Service and for 
acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal 
cost not to exceed $100, and for land exchanges where the lands 
exchanged shall be of equal value or shall be equalized by a payment of 
money to the grantor which shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
value of the land or interests transferred out of Federal ownership, 
$1,347,516,000 (reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000), of 
which $13,100,000, to remain available until expended, shall be used 
for transition and equipment purchases for the National Bio and Agro-
Defense Facility located in Manhattan, Kansas:  Provided, That of the 
amounts available to the Agricultural Research Service for the National 
Bio and Agro-Defense Facility, no funds may be obligated above the 
amount provided for the facility in Public Law 116-6 until the 
Secretary of Agriculture submits to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress, and receives written or electronic 
notification of receipt from such Committees, a strategic plan as 
required in the report accompanying this Act:  Provided further, That 
appropriations hereunder shall be available for the operation and 
maintenance of aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed one for 
replacement only:  Provided further, That appropriations hereunder 
shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for the construction, 
alteration, and repair of buildings and improvements, but unless 
otherwise provided, the cost of constructing any one building shall not 
exceed $500,000, except for headhouses or greenhouses which shall each 
be limited to $1,800,000, except for 10 buildings to be constructed or 
improved at a cost not to exceed $1,100,000 each, and except for two 
buildings to be constructed at a cost not to exceed $3,000,000 each, 
and the cost of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall 
not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement value of the building 
or $500,000, whichever is greater:  Provided further, That 
appropriations hereunder shall be available for entering into lease 
agreements at any Agricultural Research Service location for the 
construction of a research facility by a non-Federal entity for use by 
the Agricultural Research Service and a condition of the lease shall be 
that any facility shall be owned, operated, and maintained by the non-
Federal entity and shall be removed upon the expiration or termination 
of the lease agreement:  Provided further, That the limitations on 
alterations contained in this Act shall not apply to modernization or 
replacement of existing facilities at Beltsville, Maryland:  Provided 
further, That appropriations hereunder shall be available for granting 
easements at the Beltsville Agricultural Research Center:  Provided 
further, That the foregoing limitations shall not apply to replacement 
of buildings needed to carry out the Act of April 24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 
113a):  Provided further, That appropriations hereunder shall be 
available for granting easements at any Agricultural Research Service 
location for the construction of a research facility by a non-Federal 
entity for use by, and acceptable to, the Agricultural Research Service 
and a condition of the easements shall be that upon completion the 
facility shall be accepted by the Secretary, subject to the 
availability of funds herein, if the Secretary finds that acceptance of 
the facility is in the interest of the United States:  Provided 
further, That funds may be received from any State, other political 
subdivision, organization, or individual for the purpose of 
establishing or operating any research facility or research project of 
the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized by law.

                        buildings and facilities

    For the acquisition of land, construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities as 
necessary to carry out the agricultural research programs of the 
Department of Agriculture, where not otherwise provided, $50,000,000 to 
remain available until expended.

               National Institute of Food and Agriculture

                   research and education activities

    For payments to agricultural experiment stations, for cooperative 
forestry and other research, for facilities, and for other expenses, 
$1,033,007,000 (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000) 
(reduced by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by 
$5,000,000), which shall be for the purposes, and in the amounts, 
specified in the table titled ``National Institute of Food and 
Agriculture, Research and Education Activities'' in the report 
accompanying this Act:  Provided, That funds for research grants for 
1994 institutions, education grants for 1890 institutions, capacity 
building for non-land-grant colleges of agriculture, the agriculture 
and food research initiative, veterinary medicine loan repayment, 
multicultural scholars, graduate fellowship and institution challenge 
grants, and grants management systems shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided further, That each institution eligible to receive 
funds under the Evans-Allen program receives no less than $1,000,000:  
Provided further, That funds for education grants for Alaska Native and 
Native Hawaiian-serving institutions be made available to individual 
eligible institutions or consortia of eligible institutions with funds 
awarded equally to each of the States of Alaska and Hawaii:  Provided 
further, That funds for education grants for 1890 institutions shall be 
made available to institutions eligible to receive funds under 7 U.S.C. 
3221 and 3222:  Provided further, That not more than 5 percent of the 
amounts made available by this or any other Act to carry out the 
Agriculture and Food Research Initiative under 7 U.S.C. 3157 may be 
retained by the Secretary of Agriculture to pay administrative costs 
incurred by the Secretary in carrying out that authority:  Provided 
further, That none of these funds may be used to relocate the National 
Institute of Food and Agriculture outside the National Capital Region.

              native american institutions endowment fund

    For the Native American Institutions Endowment Fund authorized by 
Public Law 103-382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $11,880,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                          extension activities

    For payments to States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, 
Guam, the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, the Northern Marianas, and 
American Samoa, $541,086,000 (increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by 
$10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000), which shall be for the 
purposes, and in the amounts, specified in the table titled ``National 
Institute of Food and Agriculture, Extension Activities'' in the report 
accompanying this Act:  Provided, That funds for facility improvements 
at 1890 institutions shall remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That institutions eligible to receive funds under 7 U.S.C. 
3221 for cooperative extension receive no less than $1,000,000:  
Provided further, That funds for cooperative extension under sections 
3(b) and (c) of the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343(b) and (c)) and 
section 208(c) of Public Law 93-471 shall be available for retirement 
and employees' compensation costs for extension agents:  Provided 
further, That none of these funds may be used to relocate the National 
Institute of Food and Agriculture outside the National Capital Region.

                         integrated activities

    For the integrated research, education, and extension grants 
programs, including necessary administrative expenses, $40,000,000, 
which shall be for the purposes, and in the amounts, specified in the 
table titled ``National Institute of Food and Agriculture, Integrated 
Activities'' in the report accompanying this Act:  Provided, That funds 
for the Food and Agriculture Defense Initiative shall remain available 
until September 30, 2021:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, indirect costs shall not be charged against any 
Extension Implementation Program Area grant awarded under the Crop 
Protection/Pest Management Program (7 U.S.C. 7626):  Provided further, 
That none of these funds may be used to relocate the National Institute 
of Food and Agriculture outside the National Capital Region.

  Office of the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Marketing and Regulatory Programs, $800,000:  Provided, That funds made 
available by this Act to an agency in the Marketing and Regulatory 
Programs mission area for salaries and expenses are available to fund 
up to one administrative support staff for the Office.

               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection 
Service, including up to $30,000 for representation allowances and for 
expenses pursuant to the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4085), 
$1,034,011,000 (reduced by $12,000,000) (increased by $12,000,000) 
(reduced by $15,000,000) (increased by $15,000,000), of which $470,000, 
to remain available until expended, shall be available for the control 
of outbreaks of insects, plant diseases, animal diseases and for 
control of pest animals and birds (``contingency fund'') to the extent 
necessary to meet emergency conditions; of which $11,520,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be used for the cotton pests program, 
including for cost share purposes or for debt retirement for active 
eradication zones; of which $37,857,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be for Animal Health Technical Services; of which 
$1,000,000 shall be for activities under the authority of the Horse 
Protection Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 1831); of which $62,840,000, to 
remain available until expended, shall be used to support avian health; 
of which $4,251,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
information technology infrastructure; of which $186,513,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be for specialty crop pests; of which, 
$12,826,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for field 
crop and rangeland ecosystem pests; of which $17,523,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be for zoonotic disease management; of 
which $40,966,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
emergency preparedness and response; of which $60,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be for tree and wood pests; of which 
$5,725,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for the 
National Veterinary Stockpile; of which up to $1,500,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be for the scrapie program for 
indemnities; of which $2,500,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be for the wildlife damage management program for aviation 
safety; of which $17,800,000, to remain available until expended, shall 
be used to carry out the science program and transition activities for 
the National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility located in Manhattan, 
Kansas:  Provided, That of the amounts available to the Animal and 
Plant Health Inspection Service for the National Bio and Agro-Defense 
Facility, no funds may be obligated above the amount provided for the 
facility in Public Law 116-6 until the Secretary of Agriculture submits 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, and 
receives written or electronic notification of receipt from such 
Committees, a strategic plan as required in the report accompanying 
this Act:  Provided further, That of amounts available under this 
heading for wildlife services methods development, $1,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided further, That of amounts 
available under this heading for the screwworm program, $4,990,000 
shall remain available until expended:  Provided further, That no funds 
shall be used to formulate or administer a brucellosis eradication 
program for the current fiscal year that does not require minimum 
matching by the States of at least 40 percent:  Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for the purchase, replacement, 
operation, and maintenance of aircraft:  Provided further, That in 
addition, in emergencies which threaten any segment of the agricultural 
production industry of the United States, the Secretary may transfer 
from other appropriations or funds available to the agencies or 
corporations of the Department such sums as may be deemed necessary, to 
be available only in such emergencies for the arrest and eradication of 
contagious or infectious disease or pests of animals, poultry, or 
plants, and for expenses in accordance with sections 10411 and 10417 of 
the Animal Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8310 and 8316) and sections 
431 and 442 of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7751 and 7772), and 
any unexpended balances of funds transferred for such emergency 
purposes in the preceding fiscal year shall be merged with such 
transferred amounts:  Provided further, That appropriations hereunder 
shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the repair and 
alteration of leased buildings and improvements, but unless otherwise 
provided the cost of altering any one building during the fiscal year 
shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement value of the 
building.
    In fiscal year 2020, the agency is authorized to collect fees to 
cover the total costs of providing technical assistance, goods, or 
services requested by States, other political subdivisions, domestic 
and international organizations, foreign governments, or individuals, 
provided that such fees are structured such that any entity's liability 
for such fees is reasonably based on the technical assistance, goods, 
or services provided to the entity by the agency, and such fees shall 
be reimbursed to this account, to remain available until expended, 
without further appropriation, for providing such assistance, goods, or 
services.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, preventive maintenance, 
environmental support, improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase 
of fixed equipment or facilities, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and 
acquisition of land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2268a, $3,175,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                     Agricultural Marketing Service

                           marketing services

    For necessary expenses of the Agricultural Marketing Service, 
$182,888,000 (increased by $10,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) 
(increased by $1,500,000) (reduced by $1,500,000), of which $4,000,000 
(increased by $1,000,000) shall be available for the purposes of 
section 12306 of Public Law 113-79:  Provided, That this appropriation 
shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration 
and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost of altering any 
one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the 
current replacement value of the building.
    Fees may be collected for the cost of standardization activities, 
as established by regulation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701).

                 limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $61,227,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for administrative expenses:  Provided, 
That if crop size is understated and/or other uncontrollable events 
occur, the agency may exceed this limitation by up to 10 percent with 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.

    funds for strengthening markets, income, and supply (section 32)

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 
U.S.C. 612c), shall be used only for commodity program expenses as 
authorized therein, and other related operating expenses, except for: 
(1) transfers to the Department of Commerce as authorized by the Fish 
and Wildlife Act of 1956 (16 U.S.C. 742a et seq.); (2) transfers 
otherwise provided in this Act; and (3) not more than $20,705,000 for 
formulation and administration of marketing agreements and orders 
pursuant to the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 and the 
Agricultural Act of 1961 (Public Law 87-128).

                   payments to states and possessions

    For payments to departments of agriculture, bureaus and departments 
of markets, and similar agencies for marketing activities under section 
204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)), 
$1,235,000.

        limitation on inspection and weighing services expenses

    Not to exceed $55,000,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for inspection and weighing services:  
Provided, That if grain export activities require additional 
supervision and oversight, or other uncontrollable factors occur, this 
limitation may be exceeded by up to 10 percent with notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

             Office of the Under Secretary for Food Safety

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Food Safety, $800,000:  Provided, That funds made available by this Act 
to an agency in the Food Safety mission area for salaries and expenses 
are available to fund up to one administrative support staff for the 
Office.

                   Food Safety and Inspection Service

    For necessary expenses to carry out services authorized by the 
Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and 
the Egg Products Inspection Act, including not to exceed $10,000 for 
representation allowances and for expenses pursuant to section 8 of the 
Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766), $1,054,344,000; and in 
addition, $1,000,000 may be credited to this account from fees 
collected for the cost of laboratory accreditation as authorized by 
section 1327 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 
1990 (7 U.S.C. 138f):  Provided, That funds provided for the Public 
Health Data Communication Infrastructure system shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That no fewer than 148 full-time 
equivalent positions shall be employed during fiscal year 2020 for 
purposes dedicated solely to inspections and enforcement related to the 
Humane Methods of Slaughter Act (7 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.):  Provided 
further, That the Food Safety and Inspection Service shall continue 
implementation of section 11016 of Public Law 110-246 as further 
clarified by the amendments made in section 12106 of Public Law 113-79: 
 Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available pursuant 
to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair of buildings and 
improvements, but the cost of altering any one building during the 
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement 
value of the building.

                                TITLE II

               FARM PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

   Office of the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Farm Production and Conservation, $901,000:  Provided, That funds made 
available by this Act to an agency in the Farm Production and 
Conservation mission area for salaries and expenses are available to 
fund up to one administrative support staff for the Office.

            Farm Production and Conservation Business Center

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Farm Production and Conservation 
Business Center, $206,530,000:  Provided, That $60,228,000 of amounts 
appropriated for the current fiscal year pursuant to section 1241(a) of 
the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841(a)) 
shall be transferred to and merged with this account.

                          Farm Service Agency

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Farm Service Agency, $1,122,837,000, 
of which not less than $20,000,000 shall be for the hiring of new 
employees to fill vacancies at Farm Service Agency county offices and 
farm loan officers and shall be available until September 30, 2021:  
Provided, That of the funds included under this heading, $30,000,000 
shall be available until expended for temporary staff and information 
technology software development related to implementation of the 
Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018:  Provided further, That not more 
than 50 percent of the funding made available under this heading for 
information technology related to farm program delivery may be 
obligated until the Secretary submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, and receives written or 
electronic notification of receipt from such Committees of, a plan for 
expenditure that: (1) identifies for each project/investment over 
$25,000 (a) the functional and performance capabilities to be delivered 
and the mission benefits to be realized, (b) the estimated lifecycle 
cost for the entirety of the project/investment, including estimates 
for development as well as maintenance and operations, and (c) key 
milestones to be met; (2) demonstrates that each project/investment is, 
(a) consistent with the Farm Service Agency Information Technology 
Roadmap, (b) being managed in accordance with applicable lifecycle 
management policies and guidance, and (c) subject to the applicable 
Department's capital planning and investment control requirements; and 
(3) has been reviewed by the Government Accountability Office and 
approved by the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress:  Provided further, That the agency shall submit a report by 
the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 to the Committees on 
Appropriations and the Government Accountability Office, that 
identifies for each project/investment that is operational (a) current 
performance against key indicators of customer satisfaction, (b) 
current performance of service level agreements or other technical 
metrics, (c) current performance against a pre-established cost 
baseline, (d) a detailed breakdown of current and planned spending on 
operational enhancements or upgrades, and (e) an assessment of whether 
the investment continues to meet business needs as intended as well as 
alternatives to the investment:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
is authorized to use the services, facilities, and authorities (but not 
the funds) of the Commodity Credit Corporation to make program payments 
for all programs administered by the Agency:  Provided further, That 
other funds made available to the Agency for authorized activities may 
be advanced to and merged with this account:  Provided further, That 
funds made available to county committees shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided further, That none of the funds available to the 
Farm Service Agency shall be used to close Farm Service Agency county 
offices:  Provided further, That none of the funds available to the 
Farm Service Agency shall be used to permanently relocate county based 
employees that would result in an office with two or fewer employees 
without prior notification and approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                         state mediation grants

    For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the Agricultural Credit 
Act of 1987, as amended (7 U.S.C. 5101-5106), $5,000,000.

               grassroots source water protection program

    For necessary expenses to carry out wellhead or groundwater 
protection activities under section 1240O of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-2), $6,500,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                        dairy indemnity program

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses involved in making indemnity payments to 
dairy farmers and manufacturers of dairy products under a dairy 
indemnity program, such sums as may be necessary, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That such program is carried out by the 
Secretary in the same manner as the dairy indemnity program described 
in the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-387, 114 
Stat. 1549A-12).

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed farm ownership (7 U.S.C. 1922 et seq.) and operating (7 
U.S.C. 1941 et seq.) loans, emergency loans (7 U.S.C. 1961 et seq.), 
Indian tribe land acquisition loans (25 U.S.C. 488), boll weevil loans 
(7 U.S.C. 1989), guaranteed conservation loans (7 U.S.C. 1924 et seq.), 
and Indian highly fractionated land loans (25 U.S.C. 488) to be 
available from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as 
follows: $2,750,000,000 for guaranteed farm ownership loans and 
$1,500,000,000 for farm ownership direct loans; $1,960,000,000 for 
unsubsidized guaranteed operating loans and $1,550,133,000 for direct 
operating loans; emergency loans, $37,668,000; Indian tribe land 
acquisition loans, $20,000,000; guaranteed conservation loans, 
$150,000,000; Indian highly fractionated land loans, $10,000,000; and 
for boll weevil eradication program loans, $20,000,000:  Provided, That 
the Secretary shall deem the pink bollworm to be a boll weevil for the 
purpose of boll weevil eradication program loans.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans and grants, including 
the cost of modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as follows: farm operating loans, 
$58,440,000 for direct operating loans, $20,972,000 for unsubsidized 
guaranteed operating loans; emergency loans, $2,023,000; $2,745,000 for 
Indian highly fractionated land loans; and $20,000 for boll weevil 
eradication loans; to remain available until expended.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $317,068,000:  Provided, That of 
this amount, $290,917,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses'':  
Provided further, That of this amount $16,081,000 shall be transferred 
to and merged with the appropriation for ``Farm Production and 
Conservation Business Center, Salaries and Expenses''.
    Funds appropriated by this Act to the Agricultural Credit Insurance 
Program Account for farm ownership, operating and conservation direct 
loans and guaranteed loans may be transferred among these programs:  
Provided, That the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress are notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.

                         Risk Management Agency

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Risk Management Agency, $58,361,000:  
Provided, That not to exceed $1,000 shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
1506(i).

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                        conservation operations

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the provisions of the Act 
of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), including preparation of 
conservation plans and establishment of measures to conserve soil and 
water (including farm irrigation and land drainage and such special 
measures for soil and water management as may be necessary to prevent 
floods and the siltation of reservoirs and to control agricultural 
related pollutants); operation of conservation plant materials centers; 
classification and mapping of soil; dissemination of information; 
acquisition of lands, water, and interests therein for use in the plant 
materials program by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal cost 
not to exceed $100 pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
2268a); purchase and erection or alteration or improvement of permanent 
and temporary buildings; and operation and maintenance of aircraft, 
$829,628,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, 
That appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 
2250 for construction and improvement of buildings and public 
improvements at plant materials centers, except that the cost of 
alterations and improvements to other buildings and other public 
improvements shall not exceed $250,000:  Provided further, That when 
buildings or other structures are erected on non-Federal land, that the 
right to use such land is obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 2250a.

               watershed and flood prevention operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out preventive measures, including 
but not limited to surveys and investigations, engineering operations, 
works of improvement, and changes in use of land, in accordance with 
the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 1001-1005 
and 1007-1009) and in accordance with the provisions of laws relating 
to the activities of the Department, $155,000,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That for funds provided by this Act or any 
other prior Act, the limitation regarding the size of the watershed or 
subwatershed exceeding two hundred and fifty thousand acres in which 
such activities can be undertaken shall only apply for activities 
undertaken for the primary purpose of flood prevention (including 
structural and land treatment measures):  Provided further, That of the 
amounts made available under this heading, $52,500,000 shall be 
allocated to projects and activities that can commence promptly 
following enactment; that address regional priorities for flood 
prevention, agricultural water management, inefficient irrigation 
systems, fish and wildlife habitat, or watershed protection; or that 
address authorized ongoing projects under the authorities of section 13 
of the Flood Control Act of December 22, 1944 (Public Law 78-534) with 
a primary purpose of watershed protection by preventing floodwater 
damage and stabilizing stream channels, tributaries, and banks to 
reduce erosion and sediment transport.

                    watershed rehabilitation program

    Under the authorities of section 14 of the Watershed Protection and 
Flood Prevention Act, $12,000,000 is provided:  Provided, That of the 
amounts made available under this heading, $5,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended for watershed rehabilitation projects in 
states with high-hazard dams and other watershed structures and that 
have recently incurred flooding events which caused fatalities.

                              CORPORATIONS

    The following corporations and agencies are hereby authorized to 
make expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, 
and to make contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act as may be necessary in carrying out the programs set forth 
in the budget for the current fiscal year for such corporation or 
agency, except as hereinafter provided.

                Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Fund

    For payments as authorized by section 516 of the Federal Crop 
Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1516), such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended.

                   Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

                 reimbursement for net realized losses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary to 
reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for net realized losses 
sustained, but not previously reimbursed, pursuant to section 2 of the 
Act of August 17, 1961 (15 U.S.C. 713a-11):  Provided, That of the 
funds available to the Commodity Credit Corporation under section 11 of 
the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i) for the 
conduct of its business with the Foreign Agricultural Service, up to 
$5,000,000 may be transferred to and used by the Foreign Agricultural 
Service for information resource management activities of the Foreign 
Agricultural Service that are not related to Commodity Credit 
Corporation business.

                       hazardous waste management

                        (limitation on expenses)

    For the current fiscal year, the Commodity Credit Corporation shall 
not expend more than $5,000,000 for site investigation and cleanup 
expenses, and operations and maintenance expenses to comply with the 
requirement of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9607(g)), and 
section 6001 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6961).

                               TITLE III

                       RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

          Office of the Under Secretary for Rural Development

    For necessary expenses for the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Rural Development, $800,000:  Provided, That funds made available by 
this Act to an agency in the Rural Development mission area for 
salaries and expenses are available to fund up to one administrative 
support staff for the Office.

                           Rural Development

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the administration and 
implementation of Rural Development programs, including activities with 
institutions concerning the development and operation of agricultural 
cooperatives; and for cooperative agreements; $255,835,000:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds appropriated 
under this heading may be used for advertising and promotional 
activities that support Rural Development programs:  Provided further, 
That of the amounts made available under this paragraph, no less than 
4,566 full-time equivalent employees salaries and expenses shall be 
supported:  Provided further, That in addition to any other funds 
appropriated for purposes authorized by section 502(i) of the Housing 
Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472(i)), any amounts collected under such 
section, as amended by this Act, will immediately be credited to this 
account and will remain available until expended for such purposes.

                         Rural Housing Service

              rural housing insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 1949, 
to be available from funds in the rural housing insurance fund, as 
follows: $1,000,000,000 shall be for direct loans and $24,000,000,000 
shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans; $28,000,000 for section 504 
housing repair loans; $45,000,000 for section 515 rental housing; 
$250,000,000 for section 538 guaranteed multi-family housing loans; 
$10,000,000 for credit sales of single family housing acquired 
property; $5,000,000 for section 523 self-help housing land development 
loans; and $5,000,000 for section 524 site development loans.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: section 502 loans, $112,900,000 shall be for 
direct loans; section 504 housing repair loans, $4,679,000; section 523 
self-help housing land development loans, $577,000; section 524 site 
development loans, $546,000; and repair, rehabilitation, and new 
construction of section 515 rental housing, $13,662,000:  Provided, 
That to support the loan program level for section 538 guaranteed loans 
made available under this heading the Secretary may charge or adjust 
any fees to cover the projected cost of such loan guarantees pursuant 
to the provisions of the Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et 
seq.), and the interest on such loans may not be subsidized:  Provided 
further, That applicants in communities that have a current rural area 
waiver under section 541 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490q) 
shall be treated as living in a rural area for purposes of section 502 
guaranteed loans provided under this heading:  Provided further, That 
of the amounts available under this paragraph for section 502 direct 
loans, no less than $5,000,000 shall be available for direct loans for 
individuals whose homes will be built pursuant to a program funded with 
a mutual and self-help housing grant authorized by section 523 of the 
Housing Act of 1949 until June 1, 2020:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall implement provisions to provide incentives to nonprofit 
organizations and public housing authorities to facilitate the 
acquisition of Rural Housing Service (RHS) multifamily housing 
properties by such nonprofit organizations and public housing 
authorities that commit to keep such properties in the RHS multifamily 
housing program for a period of time as determined by the Secretary, 
with such incentives to include, but not be limited to, the following: 
allow such nonprofit entities and public housing authorities to earn a 
Return on Investment on their own resources to include proceeds from 
low income housing tax credit syndication, own contributions, grants, 
and developer loans at favorable rates and terms, invested in a deal; 
and allow reimbursement of organizational costs associated with owner's 
oversight of asset referred to as ``Asset Management Fee'' of up to 
$7,500 per property.
    In addition, for the cost of direct loans, grants, and contracts, 
as authorized by sections 514 and 516 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 
U.S.C. 1484, 1486), $19,363,000, to remain available until expended, 
for direct farm labor housing loans and domestic farm labor housing 
grants and contracts:  Provided, That any balances available for the 
Farm Labor Program Account shall be transferred to and merged with this 
account.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $412,254,000 shall be transferred 
to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural Development, Salaries 
and Expenses''.

                       rental assistance program

    For rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed pursuant 
to the authority under section 521(a)(2) of the Housing Act of 1949 or 
agreements entered into in lieu of debt forgiveness or payments for 
eligible households as authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the 
Housing Act of 1949, $1,375,000,000, of which $40,000,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2021; and in addition such sums as may be 
necessary, as authorized by section 521(c) of the Act, to liquidate 
debt incurred prior to fiscal year 1992 to carry out the rental 
assistance program under section 521(a)(2) of the Act:  Provided, That 
rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed during the current 
fiscal year shall be funded for a one-year period:  Provided further, 
That any unexpended balances remaining at the end of such one-year 
agreements may be transferred and used for purposes of any debt 
reduction; maintenance, repair, or rehabilitation of any existing 
projects; preservation; and rental assistance activities authorized 
under title V of the Act:  Provided further, That rental assistance 
provided under agreements entered into prior to fiscal year 2020 for a 
farm labor multi-family housing project financed under section 514 or 
516 of the Act may not be recaptured for use in another project until 
such assistance has remained unused for a period of 12 consecutive 
months, if such project has a waiting list of tenants seeking such 
assistance or the project has rental assistance eligible tenants who 
are not receiving such assistance:  Provided further, That such 
recaptured rental assistance shall, to the extent practicable, be 
applied to another farm labor multi-family housing project financed 
under section 514 or 516 of the Act:  Provided further, That except as 
provided in the third proviso under this heading and notwithstanding 
any other provision of the Act, the Secretary may recapture rental 
assistance provided under agreements entered into prior to fiscal year 
2020 for a project that the Secretary determines no longer needs rental 
assistance and use such recaptured funds for current needs.

          multi-family housing revitalization program account

    For the rural housing voucher program as authorized under section 
542 of the Housing Act of 1949, but notwithstanding subsection (b) of 
such section, and for additional costs to conduct a demonstration 
program for the preservation and revitalization of multi-family rental 
housing properties described in this paragraph, $75,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That of the funds made available 
under this heading, $35,000,000, shall be available for rural housing 
vouchers to any low-income household (including those not receiving 
rental assistance) residing in a property financed with a section 515 
loan which has been prepaid after September 30, 2005:  Provided 
further, That the amount of such voucher shall be the difference 
between comparable market rent for the section 515 unit and the tenant 
paid rent for such unit:  Provided further, That funds made available 
for such vouchers shall be subject to the availability of annual 
appropriations:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall, to the 
maximum extent practicable, administer such vouchers with current 
regulations and administrative guidance applicable to section 8 housing 
vouchers administered by the Secretary of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development:  Provided further, That if the Secretary determines 
that the amount made available for vouchers in this or any other Act is 
not needed for vouchers, the Secretary may use such funds for the 
demonstration program for the preservation and revitalization of multi-
family rental housing properties described in this paragraph:  Provided 
further, That of the funds made available under this heading, 
$40,000,000 shall be available for a demonstration program for the 
preservation and revitalization of the sections 514, 515, and 516 
multi-family rental housing properties to restructure existing USDA 
multi-family housing loans, as the Secretary deems appropriate, 
expressly for the purposes of ensuring the project has sufficient 
resources to preserve the project for the purpose of providing safe and 
affordable housing for low-income residents and farm laborers including 
reducing or eliminating interest; deferring loan payments, 
subordinating, reducing or reamortizing loan debt; and other financial 
assistance including advances, payments and incentives (including the 
ability of owners to obtain reasonable returns on investment) required 
by the Secretary:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall as part 
of the preservation and revitalization agreement obtain a restrictive 
use agreement consistent with the terms of the restructuring:  Provided 
further, That if the Secretary determines that additional funds for 
vouchers described in this paragraph are needed, funds for the 
preservation and revitalization demonstration program may be used for 
such vouchers:  Provided further, That if Congress enacts legislation 
to permanently authorize a multi-family rental housing loan 
restructuring program similar to the demonstration program described 
herein, the Secretary may use funds made available for the 
demonstration program under this heading to carry out such legislation 
with the prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress:  Provided further, That in addition to any other 
available funds, the Secretary may expend not more than $1,000,000 
total, from the program funds made available under this heading, for 
administrative expenses for activities funded under this heading.

                  mutual and self-help housing grants

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(A) of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $32,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                    rural housing assistance grants

    For grants for very low-income housing repair and rural housing 
preservation made by the Rural Housing Service, as authorized by 42 
U.S.C. 1474, and 1490m, $45,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

               rural community facilities program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by section 306 and described in section 
381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, 
$2,800,000,000 for direct loans and $250,000,000 for guaranteed loans.
    For the cost of grants for rural community facilities programs as 
authorized by section 306 and described in section 381E(d)(1) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, $71,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That $8,000,000 of the amount 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for a Rural 
Community Development Initiative:  Provided further, That such funds 
shall be used solely to develop the capacity and ability of private, 
nonprofit community-based housing and community development 
organizations, low-income rural communities, and Federally Recognized 
Native American Tribes to undertake projects to improve housing, 
community facilities, community and economic development projects in 
rural areas:  Provided further, That such funds shall be made available 
to qualified private, nonprofit and public intermediary organizations 
proposing to carry out a program of financial and technical assistance: 
 Provided further, That such intermediary organizations shall provide 
matching funds from other sources, including Federal funds for related 
activities, in an amount not less than funds provided:  Provided 
further, That $6,000,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading 
shall be to provide grants for facilities in rural communities with 
extreme unemployment and severe economic depression (Public Law 106-
387), with up to 5 percent for administration and capacity building in 
the State rural development offices:  Provided further, That $7,000,000 
of the amount appropriated under this heading shall be available for 
community facilities grants to tribal colleges, as authorized by 
section 306(a)(19) of such Act:  Provided further, That sections 381E-H 
and 381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act are not 
applicable to the funds made available under this heading.

                  Rural Business--Cooperative Service

                     rural business program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of loan guarantees and grants, for the rural business 
development programs authorized by section 310B and described in 
subsections (a), (c), (f) and (g) of section 310B of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act, $67,600,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That of the amount appropriated under this 
heading, not to exceed $500,000 shall be made available for one grant 
to a qualified national organization to provide technical assistance 
for rural transportation in order to promote economic development and 
$8,000,000 shall be for grants to the Delta Regional Authority (7 
U.S.C. 2009aa et seq.), the Northern Border Regional Commission (40 
U.S.C. 15101 et seq.), and the Appalachian Regional Commission (40 
U.S.C. 14101 et seq.) for any Rural Community Advancement Program 
purpose as described in section 381E(d) of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act, of which not more than 5 percent may be used for 
administrative expenses:  Provided further, That $4,000,000 of the 
amount appropriated under this heading shall be for business grants to 
benefit Federally Recognized Native American Tribes, including $250,000 
for a grant to a qualified national organization to provide technical 
assistance for rural transportation in order to promote economic 
development:  Provided further, That sections 381E-H and 381N of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act are not applicable to funds 
made available under this heading.

              intermediary relending program fund account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized by the 
Intermediary Relending Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b), 
$18,889,000.
    For the cost of direct loans, $5,219,000, as authorized by the 
Intermediary Relending Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b), of which 
$557,000 shall be available through June 30, 2020, for Federally 
Recognized Native American Tribes; and of which $1,072,000 shall be 
available through June 30, 2020, for Mississippi Delta Region counties 
(as determined in accordance with Public Law 100-460):  Provided, That 
such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan programs, $4,468,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Rural Development, Salaries and Expenses''.

            rural economic development loans program account

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized under 
section 313B(a) of the Rural Electrification Act, for the purpose of 
promoting rural economic development and job creation projects, 
$50,000,000.
    The cost of grants authorized under section 313B(a) of the Rural 
Electrification Act, for the purpose of promoting rural economic 
development and job creation projects shall not exceed $10,000,000.

                  rural cooperative development grants

    For rural cooperative development grants authorized under section 
310B(e) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1932), $29,800,000, of which $3,000,000 shall be for cooperative 
agreements for the appropriate technology transfer for rural areas 
program:  Provided, That not to exceed $3,000,000 shall be for grants 
for cooperative development centers, individual cooperatives, or groups 
of cooperatives that serve socially disadvantaged groups and a majority 
of the boards of directors or governing boards of which are comprised 
of individuals who are members of socially disadvantaged groups; and of 
which $18,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
value-added agricultural product market development grants, as 
authorized by section 210A of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, 
of which $3,000,000 may be used for Agriculture Innovation Centers 
authorized pursuant to section 6402 of Public Law 107-171.

               rural microentrepreneur assistance program

    For the cost of loans and grants, $6,000,000 under the same terms 
and conditions as authorized by section 379E of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2008s):  Provided, That such costs 
of loans, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                    rural energy for america program

    For the cost of a program of loan guarantees, under the same terms 
and conditions as authorized by section 9007 of the Farm Security and 
Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8107), $353,000 (increased by 
$353,000):  Provided, That the cost of loan guarantees, including the 
cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                        Rural Utilities Service

             rural water and waste disposal program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants for rural 
water, waste water, waste disposal, and solid waste management programs 
authorized by sections 306, 306A, 306C, 306D, 306E, and 310B and 
described in sections 306C(a)(2), 306D, 306E, and 381E(d)(2) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, $718,480,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be 
available for the rural utilities program described in section 
306(a)(2)(B) of such Act, and of which not to exceed $15,000,000 
(increased by $1) (reduced by $1) shall be available for the rural 
utilities program described in section 306E of such Act:  Provided, 
That not to exceed $15,000,000 of the amount appropriated under this 
heading shall be for grants authorized by section 306A(i)(2) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act in addition to funding 
authorized by section 306A(i)(1) of such Act and such grants may not 
exceed $1,000,000 notwithstanding section 306A(f)(1) of such Act:  
Provided further, That $70,000,000 of the amount appropriated under 
this heading shall be for loans and grants including water and waste 
disposal systems grants authorized by section 306C(a)(2)(B) and section 
306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, and Federally 
Recognized Native American Tribes authorized by 306C(a)(1) of such Act: 
 Provided further, That funding provided for section 306D of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act may be provided to a 
consortium formed pursuant to section 325 of Public Law 105-83:  
Provided further, That not more than 2 percent of the funding provided 
for section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act may 
be used by the State of Alaska for training and technical assistance 
programs and not more than 2 percent of the funding provided for 
section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act may be 
used by a consortium formed pursuant to section 325 of Public Law 105-
83 for training and technical assistance programs:  Provided further, 
That not to exceed $30,000,000 of the amount appropriated under this 
heading shall be for technical assistance grants for rural water and 
waste systems pursuant to section 306(a)(14) of such Act, unless the 
Secretary makes a determination of extreme need, of which $9,000,000 
shall be made available for a grant to a qualified nonprofit multi-
State regional technical assistance organization, with experience in 
working with small communities on water and waste water problems, the 
principal purpose of such grant shall be to assist rural communities 
with populations of 3,300 or less, in improving the planning, 
financing, development, operation, and management of water and waste 
water systems, and of which not less than $800,000 shall be for a 
qualified national Native American organization to provide technical 
assistance for rural water systems for tribal communities:  Provided 
further, That not to exceed $19,570,000 of the amount appropriated 
under this heading shall be for contracting with qualified national 
organizations for a circuit rider program to provide technical 
assistance for rural water systems:  Provided further, That not to 
exceed $4,000,000 shall be for solid waste management grants:  Provided 
further, That sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act are not applicable to the funds made available 
under this heading.

   rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    The principal amount of direct and guaranteed loans as authorized 
by sections 305, 306, and 317 of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 
(7 U.S.C. 935, 936, and 940g) shall be made as follows: loans made 
pursuant to sections 305, 306, and 317, notwithstanding 317(c), of that 
Act, rural electric, $5,500,000,000; guaranteed underwriting loans 
pursuant to section 313A of that Act, $750,000,000; 5 percent rural 
telecommunications loans, cost of money rural telecommunications loans, 
and for loans made pursuant to section 306 of that Act, rural 
telecommunications loans, $690,000,000:  Provided, That up to 
$2,000,000,000 shall be used for the construction, acquisition, design 
and engineering or improvement of fossil-fueled electric generating 
plants (whether new or existing) that utilize carbon subsurface 
utilization and storage systems.
    For the cost of direct loans as authorized by section 305 of the 
Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935), including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, cost of money rural telecommunications loans, $3,795,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $33,270,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural 
Development, Salaries and Expenses''.

         distance learning, telemedicine, and broadband program

    For the principal amount of broadband telecommunication loans, 
$29,851,000 (reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000).
    For grants for telemedicine and distance learning services in rural 
areas, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq., $50,000,000 (increased 
by $25,000,000), to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
$3,000,000 shall be made available for grants authorized by 379G of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act:  Provided further, That 
funding provided under this heading for grants under 379G of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act may only be provided to 
entities that meet all of the eligibility criteria for a consortium as 
established by this section.
    For the cost of broadband loans, as authorized by section 601 of 
the Rural Electrification Act, $5,830,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That the cost of direct loans shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    In addition, $50,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000), to remain 
available until expended, for a grant program to finance broadband 
transmission in rural areas eligible for Distance Learning and 
Telemedicine Program benefits authorized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq.

                                TITLE IV

                         DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS

    Office of the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer 
                                Services

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services, $800,000:  Provided, That funds 
made available by this Act to an agency in the Food, Nutrition and 
Consumer Services mission area for salaries and expenses are available 
to fund up to one administrative support staff for the Office.

                       Food and Nutrition Service

                        child nutrition programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Richard B. Russell National 
School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), except section 21, and the 
Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), except sections 
17 and 21; $24,040,885,000 (increased by $2,000,000) (reduced by 
$2,000,000) (increased by $200,000) (increased by $500,000) to remain 
available through September 30, 2021, of which such sums as are made 
available under section 14222(b)(1) of the Food, Conservation, and 
Energy Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-246), as amended by this Act, shall 
be merged with and available for the same time period and purposes as 
provided herein:  Provided, That of the total amount available, 
$18,004,000 shall be available to carry out section 19 of the Child 
Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.):  Provided further, That 
of the total amount available, $35,000,000 shall be available to 
provide competitive grants to State agencies for subgrants to local 
educational agencies and schools to purchase the equipment, with a 
value of greater than $1,000, needed to serve healthier meals, improve 
food safety, and to help support the establishment, maintenance, or 
expansion of the school breakfast program:  Provided further, That of 
the total amount available, $50,000,000 shall remain available until 
expended to carry out section 749(g) of the Agriculture Appropriations 
Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-80):  Provided further, That section 26(d) 
of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 
1769g(d)) is amended in the first sentence by striking ``2010 through 
2019'' and inserting ``2010 through 2021'':  Provided further, That 
section 9(h)(3) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 
U.S.C. 1758(h)(3)) is amended by striking ``For fiscal year 2019'' and 
inserting ``For fiscal years 2020 and 2021'':  Provided further, That 
section 9(h)(4) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 
U.S.C. 1758(h)(4)) is amended by striking ``For fiscal year 2019'' and 
inserting ``For fiscal years 2020 and 2021''.

special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children 
                                 (wic)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the special supplemental 
nutrition program as authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition 
Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $6,000,000,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2021:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 
17(h)(10) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(h)(10)), 
not less than $90,000,000 shall be used for breastfeeding peer 
counselors and other related activities, and $14,000,000 shall be used 
for infrastructure:  Provided further, That none of the funds provided 
in this account shall be available for the purchase of infant formula 
except in accordance with the cost containment and competitive bidding 
requirements specified in section 17 of such Act:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds provided shall be available for activities that 
are not fully reimbursed by other Federal Government departments or 
agencies unless authorized by section 17 of such Act:  Provided 
further, That upon termination of a federally mandated vendor 
moratorium and subject to terms and conditions established by the 
Secretary, the Secretary may waive the requirement at 7 CFR 
246.12(g)(6) at the request of a State agency.

               supplemental nutrition assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Food and Nutrition Act of 
2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.), $71,093,908,000, of which $5,000,000,000 
(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000), to remain 
available through December 31, 2021, shall be placed in reserve for use 
only in such amounts and at such times as may become necessary to carry 
out program operations:  Provided, That funds provided herein shall be 
expended in accordance with section 16 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 
2008:  Provided further, That of the funds made available under this 
heading, $998,000 may be used to provide nutrition education services 
to State agencies and Federally Recognized Tribes participating in the 
Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations:  Provided further, 
That this appropriation shall be subject to any work registration or 
workfare requirements as may be required by law:  Provided further, 
That funds made available for Employment and Training under this 
heading shall remain available through September 30, 2021:  Provided 
further, That funds made available under this heading for section 
28(d)(1), section 4(b), and section 27(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act 
of 2008 shall remain available through September 30, 2021:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available under this heading may 
be obligated or expended in contravention of section 213A of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1183A):  Provided further, 
That funds made available under this heading may be used to enter into 
contracts and employ staff to conduct studies, evaluations, or to 
conduct activities related to program integrity provided that such 
activities are authorized by the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008.

                      commodity assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out disaster assistance and the 
Commodity Supplemental Food Program as authorized by section 4(a) of 
the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c 
note); the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983; special assistance 
for the nuclear affected islands, as authorized by section 103(f)(2) of 
the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-
188); and the Farmers' Market Nutrition Program, as authorized by 
section 17(m) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, $344,248,000, to 
remain available through September 30, 2021:  Provided, That none of 
these funds shall be available to reimburse the Commodity Credit 
Corporation for commodities donated to the program:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, effective with funds 
made available in fiscal year 2020 to support the Seniors Farmers' 
Market Nutrition Program, as authorized by section 4402 of the Farm 
Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, such funds shall remain 
available through September 30, 2021:  Provided further, That of the 
funds made available under section 27(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act 
of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2036(a)), the Secretary may use up to 15 percent for 
costs associated with the distribution of commodities.

                   nutrition programs administration

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Food and Nutrition 
Service for carrying out any domestic nutrition assistance program, 
$154,041,000:  Provided, That of the funds provided herein, $2,000,000 
shall be used for the purposes of section 4404 of Public Law 107-171, 
as amended by section 4401 of Public Law 110-246.

                                TITLE V

                FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS

   Office of the Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural 
                                Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs, $875,000:  Provided, That funds 
made available by this Act to an agency in the Trade and Foreign 
Agricultural Affairs mission area for salaries and expenses are 
available to fund up to one administrative support staff for the 
Office.

                      office of codex alimentarius

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Codex Alimentarius, 
$4,775,000, including not to exceed $40,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                      Foreign Agricultural Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
including not to exceed $250,000 for representation allowances and for 
expenses pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 
U.S.C. 1766), $215,513,000, of which no more than 6 percent shall 
remain available until September 30, 2021, for overseas operations to 
include the payment of locally employed staff:  Provided, That the 
Service may utilize advances of funds, or reimburse this appropriation 
for expenditures made on behalf of Federal agencies, public and private 
organizations and institutions under agreements executed pursuant to 
the agricultural food production assistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1737) 
and the foreign assistance programs of the United States Agency for 
International Development:  Provided further, That funds made available 
for middle-income country training programs, funds made available for 
the Borlaug International Agricultural Science and Technology 
Fellowship program, and up to $2,000,000 of the Foreign Agricultural 
Service appropriation solely for the purpose of offsetting fluctuations 
in international currency exchange rates, subject to documentation by 
the Foreign Agricultural Service, shall remain available until 
expended.

  food for peace title i direct credit and food for progress program 
                                account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the credit program of 
title I, Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480) and the Food for 
Progress Act of 1985, $142,000, shall be transferred to and merged with 
the appropriation for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

                     food for peace title ii grants

    For expenses during the current fiscal year, not otherwise 
recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including interest 
thereon, under the Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480), for 
commodities supplied in connection with dispositions abroad under title 
II of said Act, $1,850,000,000, to remain available until expended.

  mcgovern-dole international food for education and child nutrition 
                             program grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 3107 
of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 1736o-
1), $235,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
the Commodity Credit Corporation is authorized to provide the services, 
facilities, and authorities for the purpose of implementing such 
section, subject to reimbursement from amounts provided herein:  
Provided further, That of the amount made available under this heading, 
$25,000,000, shall remain available until expended to purchase 
agricultural commodities as described in subsection 3107(a)(2) of the 
Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 1736o-
1(a)(2)).

 commodity credit corporation export (loans) credit guarantee program 
                                account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the Commodity Credit 
Corporation's Export Guarantee Program, GSM 102 and GSM 103, 
$8,845,000, to cover common overhead expenses as permitted by section 
11 of the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act and in conformity 
with the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, of which $6,382,000 shall 
be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Foreign 
Agricultural Service, Salaries and Expenses'', and of which $2,463,000 
shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Farm 
Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

                                TITLE VI

            RELATED AGENCY AND FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

                Department of Health and Human Services

                      food and drug administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Food and Drug Administration, 
including hire and purchase of passenger motor vehicles; for payment of 
space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 92-313 for 
programs and activities of the Food and Drug Administration which are 
included in this Act; for rental of special purpose space in the 
District of Columbia or elsewhere; in addition to amounts appropriated 
to the FDA Innovation Account, for carrying out the activities 
described in section 1002(b)(4) of the 21st Century Cures Act (Public 
Law 114-255); for miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement 
activities, authorized and approved by the Secretary and to be 
accounted for solely on the Secretary's certificate, not to exceed 
$25,000; and notwithstanding section 521 of Public Law 107-188; 
$5,848,357,000 (increased by $100,000) (reduced by $100,000) :  
Provided, That of the amount provided under this heading, 
$1,062,367,000 shall be derived from prescription drug user fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379h, and shall be credited to this account and 
remain available until expended; $219,527,000 shall be derived from 
medical device user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j, and shall be 
credited to this account and remain available until expended; 
$511,682,000 shall be derived from human generic drug user fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-42, and shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended; $39,618,000 shall be derived from 
biosimilar biological product user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-
52, and shall be credited to this account and remain available until 
expended; $30,524,000 shall be derived from animal drug user fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-12, and shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended; $18,700,000 shall be derived from 
generic new animal drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-21, and 
shall be credited to this account and remain available until expended; 
$712,000,000 shall be derived from tobacco product user fees authorized 
by 21 U.S.C. 387s, and shall be credited to this account and remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That in addition to and 
notwithstanding any other provision under this heading, amounts 
collected for prescription drug user fees, medical device user fees, 
human generic drug user fees, biosimilar biological product user fees, 
animal drug user fees, and generic new animal drug user fees that 
exceed the respective fiscal year 2020 limitations are appropriated and 
shall be credited to this account and remain available until expended:  
Provided further, That fees derived from prescription drug, medical 
device, human generic drug, biosimilar biological product, animal drug, 
and generic new animal drug assessments for fiscal year 2020, including 
any such fees collected prior to fiscal year 2020 but credited for 
fiscal year 2020, shall be subject to the fiscal year 2020 limitations: 
 Provided further, That the Secretary may accept payment during fiscal 
year 2020 of user fees specified under this heading and authorized for 
fiscal year 2021, prior to the due date for such fees, and that amounts 
of such fees assessed for fiscal year 2021 for which the Secretary 
accepts payment in fiscal year 2020 shall not be included in amounts 
under this heading:  Provided further, That none of these funds shall 
be used to develop, establish, or operate any program of user fees 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 9701:  Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated: (1) $1,100,560,000 shall be for the Center for 
Food Safety and Applied Nutrition and related field activities in the 
Office of Regulatory Affairs, of which no less than $15,000,000 shall 
be used for inspections of foreign seafood manufacturers and field 
examinations of imported seafood; (2) $1,978,674,000 shall be for the 
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research and related field activities in 
the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (3) $431,561,000 shall be for the 
Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research and for related field 
activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (4) $242,558,000 shall 
be for the Center for Veterinary Medicine and for related field 
activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (5) $606,469,000 shall 
be for the Center for Devices and Radiological Health and for related 
field activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (6) $66,512,000 
shall be for the National Center for Toxicological Research; (7) 
$661,739,000 shall be for the Center for Tobacco Products and for 
related field activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (8) 
$191,800,000 shall be for Rent and Related activities, of which 
$56,043,000 is for White Oak Consolidation, other than the amounts paid 
to the General Services Administration for rent; (9) $240,079,000 shall 
be for payments to the General Services Administration for rent; and 
(10) $328,405,000 shall be for other activities, including the Office 
of the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, the Office of Foods and 
Veterinary Medicine, the Office of Medical and Tobacco Products, the 
Office of Global and Regulatory Policy, the Office of Operations, the 
Office of the Chief Scientist, and central services for these offices:  
Provided further, That not to exceed $25,000 of this amount shall be 
for official reception and representation expenses, not otherwise 
provided for, as determined by the Commissioner:  Provided further, 
That any transfer of funds pursuant to section 770(n) of the Federal 
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 379dd(n)) shall only be from 
amounts made available under this heading for other activities:  
Provided further, That funds may be transferred from one specified 
activity to another with the prior approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    In addition, mammography user fees authorized by 42 U.S.C. 263b, 
export certification user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 381, priority 
review user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360n and 360ff, food and feed 
recall fees, food reinspection fees, and voluntary qualified importer 
program fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-31, outsourcing facility fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-62, prescription drug wholesale 
distributor licensing and inspection fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 
353(e)(3), third-party logistics provider licensing and inspection fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360eee-3(c)(1), third-party auditor fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 384d(c)(8), and medical countermeasure priority 
review voucher user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360bbb-4a, and, 
contingent upon the enactment of the Over-the-Counter Monograph User 
Fee Act of 2019, fees relating to over-the-counter monograph drugs 
authorized by part 10 of subchapter C of chapter VII of the Federal 
Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act shall be credited to this account, to 
remain available until expended.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, 
alteration, demolition, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities 
of or used by the Food and Drug Administration, where not otherwise 
provided, $11,788,000, to remain available until expended.

                   fda innovation account, cures act

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the purposes described under 
section 1002(b)(4) of the 21st Century Cures Act, in addition to 
amounts available for such purposes under the heading ``Salaries and 
Expenses'', $75,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That amounts appropriated in this paragraph are appropriated pursuant 
to section 1002(b)(3) of the 21st Century Cures Act, are to be derived 
from amounts transferred under section 1002(b)(2)(A) of such Act, and 
may be transferred by the Commissioner of Food and Drugs to the 
appropriation for ``Department of Health and Human Services Food and 
Drug Administration Salaries and Expenses'' solely for the purposes 
provided in such Act:  Provided further, That upon a determination by 
the Commissioner that funds transferred pursuant to the previous 
proviso are not necessary for the purposes provided, such amounts may 
be transferred back to the account:  Provided further, That such 
transfer authority is in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided by law.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                  Commodity Futures Trading Commission

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Commodity 
Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, and the rental of space (to include multiple 
year leases), in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, $284,000,000, 
including not to exceed $3,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, and not to exceed $25,000 for the expenses for 
consultations and meetings hosted by the Commission with foreign 
governmental and other regulatory officials, of which not less than 
$57,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, shall be for 
the purchase of information technology and of which not less than 
$3,386,000 shall be for expenses of the Office of the Inspector 
General:  Provided, That notwithstanding the limitations in 31 U.S.C. 
1553, amounts provided under this heading are available for the 
liquidation of obligations equal to current year payments on leases 
entered into prior to the date of enactment of this Act:  Provided 
further, That for the purpose of recording and liquidating any lease 
obligations that should have been recorded and liquidated against 
accounts closed pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1552, and consistent with the 
preceding proviso, such amounts shall be transferred to and recorded in 
a no-year account in the Treasury, which has been established for the 
sole purpose of recording adjustments for and liquidating such unpaid 
obligations.
    In addition, for move, replication, and related costs associated 
with replacement leases for the Commission's facilities, not to exceed 
$31,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                       Farm Credit Administration

                 limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $76,000,000 (from assessments collected from farm 
credit institutions, including the Federal Agricultural Mortgage 
Corporation) shall be obligated during the current fiscal year for 
administrative expenses as authorized under 12 U.S.C. 2249:  Provided, 
That this limitation shall not apply to expenses associated with 
receiverships:  Provided further, That the agency may exceed this 
limitation by up to 10 percent with notification to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                               TITLE VII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

             (including rescissions and transfers of funds)

    Sec. 701.  The Secretary may use any appropriations made available 
to the Department of Agriculture in this Act to purchase new passenger 
motor vehicles, in addition to specific appropriations for this 
purpose, so long as the total number of vehicles purchased in fiscal 
year 2020 does not exceed the number of vehicles owned or leased in 
fiscal year 2018:  Provided, That, prior to purchasing additional motor 
vehicles, the Secretary must determine that such vehicles are necessary 
for transportation safety, to reduce operational costs, and for the 
protection of life, property, and public safety:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary may not increase the Department of Agriculture's 
fleet above the 2018 level unless the Secretary notifies in writing, 
and receives approval from, the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress within 30 days of the notification.
    Sec. 702.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
Secretary of Agriculture may transfer unobligated balances of 
discretionary funds appropriated by this Act or any other available 
unobligated discretionary balances that are remaining available of the 
Department of Agriculture to the Working Capital Fund for the 
acquisition of plant and capital equipment necessary for the delivery 
of financial, administrative, and information technology services of 
primary benefit to the agencies of the Department of Agriculture, such 
transferred funds to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
none of the funds made available by this Act or any other Act shall be 
transferred to the Working Capital Fund without the prior approval of 
the agency administrator:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
transferred to the Working Capital Fund pursuant to this section shall 
be available for obligation without written notification to and the 
prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress:  Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by 
this Act or made available to the Department's Working Capital Fund 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure to make any changes to 
the Department's National Finance Center without written notification 
to and prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress at least 30 days in advance of such changes:  
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by this Act or 
made available to the Department's Working Capital Fund shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure to initiate, plan, develop, 
implement, or make any changes to remove or relocate any systems, 
missions, or functions of the offices of the Chief Financial Officer or 
any personnel from the National Finance Center prior to written 
notification to and prior approval of the Committee on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress at least 30 days in advance of such actions: 
 Provided further, That the Secretary of Agriculture and the offices of 
the Chief Financial Officer shall actively market to existing and new 
Departments and other government agencies National Finance Center 
shared services including, but not limited to, payroll, financial 
management, and human capital shared services and allow the National 
Finance Center to perform technology upgrades:  Provided further, That 
of annual income amounts in the Working Capital Fund of the Department 
of Agriculture attributable to the amounts in excess of the true costs 
of the shared services provided by the National Finance Center and 
budgeted for the National Finance Center, the Secretary shall reserve 
not more than 4 percent for the replacement or acquisition of capital 
equipment, including equipment for the improvement, delivery, and 
implementation of financial, administrative, and information technology 
services, and other systems of the National Finance Center or to pay 
any unforeseen, extraordinary cost of the National Finance Center:  
Provided further, That none of the amounts reserved shall be available 
for obligation unless the Secretary submits written notification of the 
obligation to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress:  Provided further, That the limitations on the obligation of 
funds pending notification to Congressional Committees shall not apply 
to any obligation that, as determined by the Secretary, is necessary to 
respond to a declared state of emergency that significantly impacts the 
operations of the National Finance Center; or to evacuate employees of 
the National Finance Center to a safe haven to continue operations of 
the National Finance Center.
    Sec. 703.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 704.  No funds appropriated by this Act may be used to pay 
negotiated indirect cost rates on cooperative agreements or similar 
arrangements between the United States Department of Agriculture and 
nonprofit institutions in excess of 10 percent of the total direct cost 
of the agreement when the purpose of such cooperative arrangements is 
to carry out programs of mutual interest between the two parties. This 
does not preclude appropriate payment of indirect costs on grants and 
contracts with such institutions when such indirect costs are computed 
on a similar basis for all agencies for which appropriations are 
provided in this Act.
    Sec. 705.  Appropriations to the Department of Agriculture for the 
cost of direct and guaranteed loans made available in the current 
fiscal year shall remain available until expended to disburse 
obligations made in the current fiscal year for the following accounts: 
the Rural Development Loan Fund program account, the Rural 
Electrification and Telecommunication Loans program account, and the 
Rural Housing Insurance Fund program account.
    Sec. 706.  None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Agriculture by this Act may be used to acquire new information 
technology systems or significant upgrades, as determined by the Office 
of the Chief Information Officer, without the approval of the Chief 
Information Officer and the concurrence of the Executive Information 
Technology Investment Review Board:  Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available by this Act may be transferred to the Office of the 
Chief Information Officer without written notification to and the prior 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding section 11319 of 
title 40, United States Code, none of the funds available to the 
Department of Agriculture for information technology shall be obligated 
for projects, contracts, or other agreements over $25,000 prior to 
receipt of written approval by the Chief Information Officer:  Provided 
further, That the Chief Information Officer may authorize an agency to 
obligate funds without written approval from the Chief Information 
Officer for projects, contracts, or other agreements up to $250,000 
based upon the performance of an agency measured against the 
performance plan requirements described in the explanatory statement 
accompanying Public Law 113-235.
    Sec. 707.  Funds made available under section 524(b) of the Federal 
Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1524(b)) in the current fiscal year shall 
remain available until expended to disburse obligations made in the 
current fiscal year.
    Sec. 708.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any former 
RUS borrower that has repaid or prepaid an insured, direct or 
guaranteed loan under the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, or any 
not-for-profit utility that is eligible to receive an insured or direct 
loan under such Act, shall be eligible for assistance under section 
313B(a) of such Act in the same manner as a borrower under such Act.
    Sec. 709. (a) Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not 
more than $20,000,000 in unobligated balances from appropriations made 
available for salaries and expenses in this Act for the Farm Service 
Agency shall remain available through September 30, 2021, for 
information technology expenses.
    (b) Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not more than 
$20,000,000 in unobligated balances from appropriations made available 
for salaries and expenses in this Act for the Rural Development mission 
area shall remain available through September 30, 2021, for information 
technology expenses.
    Sec. 710.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used for first-class travel by the 
employees of agencies funded by this Act in contravention of sections 
301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 711.  In the case of each program established or amended by 
the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-79) or by a successor to 
that Act, other than by title I or subtitle A of title III of such Act, 
or programs for which indefinite amounts were provided in that Act, 
that is authorized or required to be carried out using funds of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation--
            (1) such funds shall be available for salaries and related 
        administrative expenses, including technical assistance, 
        associated with the implementation of the program, without 
        regard to the limitation on the total amount of allotments and 
        fund transfers contained in section 11 of the Commodity Credit 
        Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i); and
            (2) the use of such funds for such purpose shall not be 
        considered to be a fund transfer or allotment for purposes of 
        applying the limitation on the total amount of allotments and 
        fund transfers contained in such section.
    Sec. 712.  Of the funds made available by this Act, not more than 
$2,900,000 shall be used to cover necessary expenses of activities 
related to all advisory committees, panels, commissions, and task 
forces of the Department of Agriculture, except for panels used to 
comply with negotiated rule makings and panels used to evaluate 
competitively awarded grants.
    Sec. 713. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.
    Sec. 714.  Notwithstanding subsection (b) of section 14222 of 
Public Law 110-246 (7 U.S.C. 612c-6; in this section referred to as 
``section 14222''), none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to carry out a program under section 32 of 
the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c; in this section referred to 
as ``section 32'') in excess of $1,404,000,000 (exclusive of carryover 
appropriations from prior fiscal years), as follows: Child Nutrition 
Programs Entitlement Commodities--$485,000,000; State Option 
Contracts-- $5,000,000; Removal of Defective Commodities-- $2,500,000; 
Administration of Section 32 Commodity Purchases--$35,853,000:  
Provided, That of the total funds made available in the matter 
preceding this proviso that remain unobligated on October 1, 2020, such 
unobligated balances shall carryover into fiscal year 2021 and shall 
remain available until expended for any of the purposes of section 32, 
except that any such carryover funds used in accordance with clause (3) 
of section 32 may not exceed $350,000,000 and may not be obligated 
until the Secretary of Agriculture provides written notification of the 
expenditures to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress at least two weeks in advance:  Provided further, That, with 
the exception of any available carryover funds authorized in any prior 
appropriations Act to be used for the purposes of clause (3) of section 
32, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries or expenses of any 
employee of the Department of Agriculture to carry out clause (3) of 
section 32.
    Sec. 715.  None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act 
shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel who prepare 
or submit appropriations language as part of the President's budget 
submission to the Congress for programs under the jurisdiction of the 
Appropriations Subcommittees on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies that assumes revenues or 
reflects a reduction from the previous year due to user fees proposals 
that have not been enacted into law prior to the submission of the 
budget unless such budget submission identifies which additional 
spending reductions should occur in the event the user fees proposals 
are not enacted prior to the date of the convening of a committee of 
conference for the fiscal year 2021 appropriations Act.
    Sec. 716. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided 
by previous appropriations Acts to the Department of Agriculture that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal 
year, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the 
collection of fees available to the Department of Agriculture, shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure through transfer of funds, or 
reimbursements as authorized by the Economy Act, or through use of the 
authority provided by section 702(b) of the Department of Agriculture 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257) or section 8 of Public Law 89-106 
(7 U.S.C. 2263), that--
            (1) creates new programs;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
        project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
        restricted;
            (4) relocates an office or employees;
            (5) reorganizes offices, programs, or activities; or
            (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities 
        presently performed by Federal employees.
    (b) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
appropriations Acts to the Department of Agriculture that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal year, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of 
fees available to the Department of Agriculture, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure for activities, programs, or projects through 
use of the authorities referred to in subsection (a) involving funds in 
excess of $500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, that--
            (1) augments existing programs, projects, or activities;
            (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
        project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent as 
        approved by Congress; or
            (3) results from any general savings from a reduction in 
        personnel which would result in a change in existing programs, 
        projects, or activities as approved by Congress.
    (c) The Secretary of Agriculture may not implement any program, 
project, or activity not carried out during the previous fiscal year 
unless the program, project, or activity is funded by this Act or 
specifically funded by any other Act.
    (d) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
appropriations Acts to the Department of Agriculture that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal year, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of 
fees available to the Department of Agriculture shall be available 
for--
            (1) modifying major capital investments funding levels, 
        including information technology systems, that involves 
        increasing or decreasing funds in the current fiscal year for 
        the individual investment in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent 
        of the total cost, whichever is less; or
            (2) realigning or reorganizing new, current, or vacant 
        positions or agency activities or functions to establish a 
        center, office, branch, or similar entity with five or more 
        personnel.
    Sec. 717. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided 
by previous appropriations Acts to the Food and Drug Administration or 
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission that remain available for 
obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal year, or provided from 
any accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of fees 
available to those agencies, shall be available for obligation or 
expenditure through a reprogramming, or a transfer of funds, that--
            (1) creates new programs;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
        project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
        restricted;
            (4) relocates an office or employees;
            (5) reorganizes offices, programs, or activities; or
            (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities 
        presently performed by Federal employees;
unless the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Chairman of 
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (as the case may be) notifies 
in writing, and receives approval from, the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30 days in advance 
of the reprogramming of such funds or the use of such transfer 
authority.
    (b) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
appropriations Acts to the Food and Drug Administration or the 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission that remain available for 
obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal year, or provided from 
any accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of fees 
available to those agencies, shall be available for obligation or 
expenditure for programs, projects, or activities through a 
reprogramming or use of the transfer authority referred to in 
subsection (a) involving funds in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent, 
whichever is less, that--
            (1) augments existing programs, projects, or activities;
            (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
        project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent as 
        approved by Congress; or
            (3) results from any general savings from a reduction in 
        personnel which would result in a change in existing programs, 
        projects, or activities as approved by Congress;
unless the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Chairman of 
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (as the case may be) notifies 
in writing, and receives approval from, the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30 days in advance 
of the reprogramming of such funds or the use of such transfer 
authority.
    (c) The Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Chairman of 
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (as the case may be) shall 
notify in writing and receive approval from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress before implementing any 
program, project, or activity not carried out during the previous 
fiscal year unless the program, project, or activity is funded by this 
Act or specifically funded by any other Act.
    (d) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
appropriations Acts to the Food and Drug Administration or the 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (as the case may be) that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal year, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of 
fees available to those agencies, shall be available for--
            (1) modifying major capital investments funding levels, 
        including information technology systems, that involves 
        increasing or decreasing funds in the current fiscal year for 
        the individual investment in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent 
        of the total cost, whichever is less;
            (2) realigning or reorganizing new, current, or vacant 
        positions or agency activities or functions to establish a 
        center, office, branch, or similar entity with five or more 
        personnel; or
            (3) carrying out activities or functions that were not 
        described in the budget request;
unless the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Chairman of 
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (as the case may be) notifies 
in writing, and receives approval from, the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30 days in advance 
of using the funds for these purposes.
    (e) As described in this section, no funds may be used for any 
activities unless the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the 
Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (as the case may 
be) receives from the Committee on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress written or electronic mail confirmation of receipt of the 
notification as required in this section.
    Sec. 718.  Notwithstanding section 310B(g)(5) of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1932(g)(5)), the Secretary may 
assess a one-time fee for any guaranteed business and industry loan in 
an amount that does not exceed 3 percent of the guaranteed principal 
portion of the loan.
    Sec. 719.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the Department of Agriculture, the Food and Drug 
Administration, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the Farm 
Credit Administration shall be used to transmit or otherwise make 
available reports, questions, or responses to questions that are a 
result of information requested for the appropriations hearing process 
to any non-Department of Agriculture, non-Department of Health and 
Human Services, non-Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or non-Farm 
Credit Administration employee.
    Sec. 720.  Unless otherwise authorized by existing law, none of the 
funds provided in this Act, may be used by an executive branch agency 
to produce any prepackaged news story intended for broadcast or 
distribution in the United States unless the story includes a clear 
notification within the text or audio of the prepackaged news story 
that the prepackaged news story was prepared or funded by that 
executive branch agency.
    Sec. 721.  No employee of the Department of Agriculture may be 
detailed or assigned from an agency or office funded by this Act or any 
other Act to any other agency or office of the Department for more than 
60 days in a fiscal year unless the individual's employing agency or 
office is fully reimbursed by the receiving agency or office for the 
salary and expenses of the employee for the period of assignment.
    Sec. 722.  For the purposes of determining eligibility or level of 
program assistance for Rural Development programs the Secretary shall 
not include incarcerated prison populations.
    Sec. 723.  Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Commissioner of the Food 
and Drug Administration, the Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission, and the Chairman of the Farm Credit Administration shall 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
detailed spending plan by program, project, and activity for all the 
funds made available under this Act including appropriated user fees, 
as defined in the joint explanatory statement accompanying this Act.
    Sec. 724.  Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available 
for the supplemental nutrition program as authorized by section 17 of 
the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $800,000,000 are 
hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 725.  The Secretary shall continue an intermediary loan 
packaging program based on the pilot program in effect for fiscal year 
2013 for packaging and reviewing section 502 single family direct 
loans. The Secretary shall continue agreements with current 
intermediary organizations and with additional qualified intermediary 
organizations. The Secretary shall work with these organizations to 
increase effectiveness of the section 502 single family direct loan 
program in rural communities and shall set aside and make available 
from the national reserve section 502 loans an amount necessary to 
support the work of such intermediaries and provide a priority for 
review of such loans.
    Sec. 726.  For loans and loan guarantees that do not require budget 
authority and the program level has been established in this Act, the 
Secretary of Agriculture may increase the program level for such loans 
and loan guarantees by not more than 25 percent:  Provided, That prior 
to the Secretary implementing such an increase, the Secretary notifies, 
in writing, the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
at least 15 days in advance.
    Sec. 727.  None of the credit card refunds or rebates transferred 
to the Working Capital Fund pursuant to section 729 of the Agriculture, 
Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2002 (7 U.S.C. 2235a; Public Law 107-76) shall be 
available for obligation without written notification to, and the prior 
approval of, the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress:  Provided, That the refunds or rebates so transferred shall 
be available for obligation only for the acquisition of plant and 
capital equipment necessary for the delivery of financial, 
administrative, and information technology services of primary benefit 
to the agencies of the Department of Agriculture.
    Sec. 728.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce the ``variety'' requirements of 
the final rule entitled ``Enhancing Retailer Standards in the 
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)'' published by the 
Department of Agriculture in the Federal Register on December 15, 2016 
(81 Fed. Reg. 90675) until the Secretary of Agriculture amends the 
definition of the term ``variety'' as de fined in section 
278.1(b)(1)(ii)(C) of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, and 
``variety'' as applied in the definition of the term ``staple food'' as 
defined in section 271.2 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, to 
increase the number of items that qualify as acceptable varieties in 
each staple food category so that the total number of such items in 
each staple food category exceeds the number of such items in each 
staple food category included in the final rule as published on 
December 15, 2016:  Provided, That until the Secretary promulgates such 
regulatory amendments, the Secretary shall apply the requirements 
regarding acceptable varieties and breadth of stock to Supplemental 
Nutrition Assistance Program retailers that were in effect on the day 
before the date of the enactment of the Agricultural Act of 2014 
(Public Law 113-79).
    Sec. 729.  In carrying out subsection (h) of section 502 of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472), the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall have the same authority with respect to loans guaranteed under 
such section and eligible lenders for such loans as the Secretary has 
under subsections (h) and (j) of section 538 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1490p-2) with respect to loans guaranteed under such section 538 and 
eligible lenders for such loans.
    Sec. 730.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to propose, promulgate, or implement any rule, or take any other action 
with respect to, allowing or requiring information intended for a 
prescribing health care professional, in the case of a drug or 
biological product subject to section 503(b)(1) of the Federal Food, 
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 353(b)(1)), to be distributed to such 
professional electronically (in lieu of in paper form) unless and until 
a Federal law is enacted to allow or require such distribution.
    Sec. 731.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to carry out the final rule promulgated by the Food and 
Drug Administration and put into effect November 16, 2015, in regards 
to the hazard analysis and risk-based preventive control requirements 
of the current good manufacturing practice, hazard analysis, and risk-
based preventive controls for food for animals rule with respect to the 
regulation of the production, distribution, sale, or receipt of dried 
spent grain byproducts of the alcoholic beverage production process.
    Sec. 732.  Funds made available under title II of the Food for 
Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.) may only be used to provide 
assistance to recipient nations if adequate monitoring and controls, as 
determined by the Administrator, are in place to ensure that emergency 
food aid is received by the intended beneficiaries in areas affected by 
food shortages and not diverted for unauthorized or inappropriate 
purposes.
    Sec. 733.  There is hereby appropriated $15,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, to carry out section 6407 of the Farm 
Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8107a):  Provided, 
That the Secretary may allow eligible entities, or comparable entities 
that provide energy efficiency services using their own billing 
mechanism to offer loans to customers in any part of their service 
territory and to offer loans to replace a manufactured housing unit 
with another manufactured housing unit, if replacement would be more 
cost effective in saving energy.
    Sec. 734. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture shall--
            (1) conduct audits in a manner that evaluates the following 
        factors in the country or region being audited, as applicable--
                    (A) veterinary control and oversight;
                    (B) disease history and vaccination practices;
                    (C) livestock demographics and traceability;
                    (D) epidemiological separation from potential 
                sources of infection;
                    (E) surveillance practices;
                    (F) diagnostic laboratory capabilities; and
                    (G) emergency preparedness and response; and
            (2) promptly make publicly available the final reports of 
        any audits or reviews conducted pursuant to subsection (1).
    (b) This section shall be applied in a manner consistent with 
United States obligations under its international trade agreements.
    Sec. 735.  No food that bears or contains partially hydrogenated 
oils (as defined in the order published by the Food and Drug 
Administration in the Federal Register on June 17, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 
34650 et seq.)) shall be considered to be adulterated within the 
meaning of subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2)(C)(i) of section 402 of the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 342(a)) because such 
food contains such partially hydrogenated oils until the applicable 
compliance dates specified by FDA in the Federal Register on May 21, 
2018 (83 Fed. Reg. 23358 et seq.).
    Sec. 736.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to carry out any activities or incur any expense related to the 
issuance of licenses under section 3 of the Animal Welfare Act (7 
U.S.C. 2133), or the renewal of such licenses, to class B dealers who 
sell dogs and cats for use in research, experiments, teaching, or 
testing.
    Sec. 737. (a)(1) No Federal funds made available for this fiscal 
year for the rural water, waste water, waste disposal, and solid waste 
management programs authorized by sections 306, 306A, 306C, 306D, 306E, 
and 310B of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1926 et seq.) shall be used for a project for the construction, 
alteration, maintenance, or repair of a public water or wastewater 
system unless all of the iron and steel products used in the project 
are produced in the United States.
    (2) In this section, the term ``iron and steel products'' means the 
following products made primarily of iron or steel: lined or unlined 
pipes and fittings, manhole covers and other municipal castings, 
hydrants, tanks, flanges, pipe clamps and restraints, valves, 
structural steel, reinforced precast concrete, and construction 
materials.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply in any case or category of cases 
in which the Secretary of Agriculture (in this section referred to as 
the ``Secretary'') or the designee of the Secretary finds that--
            (1) applying subsection (a) would be inconsistent with the 
        public interest;
            (2) iron and steel products are not produced in the United 
        States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities or of 
        a satisfactory quality; or
            (3) inclusion of iron and steel products produced in the 
        United States will increase the cost of the overall project by 
        more than 25 percent.
    (c) If the Secretary or the designee receives a request for a 
waiver under this section, the Secretary or the designee shall make 
available to the public on an informal basis a copy of the request and 
information available to the Secretary or the designee concerning the 
request, and shall allow for informal public input on the request for 
at least 15 days prior to making a finding based on the request. The 
Secretary or the designee shall make the request and accompanying 
information available by electronic means, including on the official 
public Internet Web site of the Department.
    (d) This section shall be applied in a manner consistent with 
United States obligations under international agreements.
    (e) The Secretary may retain up to 0.25 percent of the funds 
appropriated in this Act for ``Rural Utilities Service--Rural Water and 
Waste Disposal Program Account'' for carrying out the provisions 
described in subsection (a)(1) for management and oversight of the 
requirements of this section.
    (f) Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to a project for 
which the engineering plans and specifications include use of iron and 
steel products otherwise prohibited by such subsection if the plans and 
specifications have received required approvals from State agencies 
prior to the date of enactment of this Act.
    (g) For purposes of this section, the terms ``United States'' and 
``State'' shall include each of the several States, the District of 
Columbia, and each federally recognized Indian tribe.
    Sec. 738.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
in any way, directly or indirectly, to influence congressional action 
on any legislation or appropriation matters pending before Congress, 
other than to communicate to Members of Congress as described in 18 
U.S.C. 1913.
    Sec. 739.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to procure raw or processed poultry products imported into the United 
States from the People's Republic of China for use in the school lunch 
program under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 
U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), the Child and Adult Care Food Program under 
section 17 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1766), the Summer Food Service 
Program for Children under section 13 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1761), or 
the school breakfast program under the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 
U.S.C. 1771 et seq.).
    Sec. 740.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to pay the salaries or expenses of personnel--
            (1) to inspect horses under section 3 of the Federal Meat 
        Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 603);
            (2) to inspect horses under section 903 of the Federal 
        Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 1901 
        note; Public Law 104-127); or
            (3) to implement or enforce section 352.19 of title 9, Code 
        of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation).
    Sec. 741.  Of the total amounts made available by this Act for 
direct loans and grants in section 733 and in the following headings: 
``Rural Housing Service--Rural Housing Insurance Fund Program 
Account''; ``Rural Housing Service--Mutual and Self-Help Housing 
Grants''; ``Rural Housing Service--Rural Housing Assistance Grants''; 
``Rural Housing Service--Rural Community Facilities Program Account''; 
``Rural Business-Cooperative Service--Rural Business Program Account''; 
``Rural Business-Cooperative Service--Rural Economic Development Loans 
Program Account''; ``Rural Business-Cooperative Service--Rural 
Cooperative Development Grants''; ``Rural Utilities Service--Rural 
Water and Waste Disposal Program Account''; ``Rural Utilities Service--
Rural Electrification and Telecommunications Loans Program Account''; 
and ``Rural Utilities Service--Distance Learning, Telemedicine, and 
Broadband Program'', to the maximum extent feasible, at least 10 
percent of the funds shall be allocated for assistance in persistent 
poverty counties under this section, including, notwithstanding any 
other provision regarding population limits, any county seat of such a 
persistent poverty county that has a population that does not exceed 
the authorized population limit by more than 10 percent:  Provided, 
That for purposes of this section, the term ``persistent poverty 
counties'' means any county that has had 20 percent or more of its 
population living in poverty over the past 30 years, as measured by the 
1990 and 2000 decennial censuses, and 2007-2011 American Community 
Survey 5-year average, or any territory or possession of the United 
States:  Provided further, That with respect to specific activities for 
which program levels have been made available by this Act that are not 
supported by budget authority, the requirements of this section shall 
be applied to such program level.
    Sec. 742. (a) No funds shall be used to finalize the proposed rule 
entitled ``Eligibility of the People's Republic of China (PRC) to 
Export to the United States Poultry Products from Birds Slaughtered in 
the PRC'' published in the Federal Register by the Department of 
Agriculture on June 16, 2017 (82 Fed. Reg. 27625), unless the Secretary 
of Agriculture shall--
            (1) ensure that the poultry slaughter inspection system for 
        the PRC is equivalent to that of the United States;
            (2) ensure that, before any poultry products can enter the 
        United States from any such poultry plant, such poultry 
        products comply with all other applicable requirements for 
        poultry products in interstate commerce in the United States;
            (3) conduct periodic verification reviews and audits of any 
        such plants in the PRC intending to export into the United 
        States processed poultry products;
            (4) conduct re-inspection of such poultry products at 
        United States ports-of-entry to check the general condition of 
        such products, for the proper certification and labeling of 
        such products, and for any damage to such products that may 
        have occurred during transportation; and
            (5) ensure that shipments of any such poultry products 
        selected to enter the United States are subject to additional 
        re-inspection procedures at appropriate levels to verify that 
        the products comply with relevant Federal regulations or 
        standards, including examinations for product defects and 
        laboratory analyses to detect harmful chemical residues or 
        pathogen testing appropriate for the products involved.
    (b) This section shall be applied in a manner consistent with 
obligations of the United States under any trade agreement to which the 
United States is a party.
    Sec. 743.  In addition to any other funds made available in this 
Act or any other Act, there is appropriated $5,000,000 (increased by 
$1,000,000) to carry out section 18(g)(8) of the Richard B. Russell 
National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769(g)), to remain available 
until expended.
    Sec. 744.  There is hereby appropriated $10,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021, for the cost of loans and grants 
that is consistent with section 4206 of the Agricultural Act of 2014, 
for necessary expenses of the Secretary to support projects that 
provide access to healthy food in underserved areas, to create and 
preserve quality jobs, and to revitalize low-income communities.
    Sec. 745.  For an additional amount for ``Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service--Salaries and Expenses'', $8,500,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021, for one-time control and management 
and associated activities directly related to the multiple-agency 
response to citrus greening.
    Sec. 746.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to enforce the final rule promulgated by the Food and 
Drug Administration entitled ``Standards for the Growing, Harvesting, 
Packing, and Holding of Produce for Human Consumption,'' and published 
on November 27, 2015, with respect to the regulation of entities that 
grow, harvest, pack, or hold wine grapes, hops, pulse crops, or 
almonds.
    Sec. 747.  For school year 2020-2021, only a school food authority 
that had a negative balance in the nonprofit school food service 
account as of December 31, 2019, shall be required to establish a price 
for paid lunches in accordance with Section 12(p) of the Richard B. 
Russell National School Lunch Act, 42 U.S.C. 1760(p).
    Sec. 748. (a) There is hereby appropriated $463,000,000 (increased 
by $55,000,000), to remain available until expended, for an additional 
amount for section 779 of Public Law 115-141.
    (b) Section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as 
amended (7 U.S.C. 940c), shall be applied for fiscal year 2019 and each 
fiscal year thereafter until the specified funding has been expended as 
if the following were inserted after the final period in subsection 
(b)(2): In addition, the Secretary shall use $87,000,000 of funds 
available in this subaccount in fiscal year 2020 for an additional 
amount for the same purpose and under the same terms and conditions as 
funds appropriated by section 779 of Public Law 115-141:  Provided, 
That prior to any use of such funds, the Secretary shall provide 
written notification to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress at least 30 days in advance.
    Sec. 749.  There is hereby appropriated $5,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021, for a pilot program for the 
National Institute of Food and Agriculture to provide grants to 
nonprofit organizations for programs and services to establish and 
enhance farming and ranching opportunities for military veterans.
    Sec. 750.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement or enforce the matter following the first comma in the 
second sentence of footnote (c) of section 220.8(c) of title 7, Code of 
Federal Regulations, with respect to the substitution of vegetables for 
fruits under the school breakfast program established under section 4 
of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773).
    Sec. 751.  Out of amounts appropriated to the Food and Drug 
Administration under title VI, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, acting through the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, shall, not 
later than July 1, 2020, and following the review required under 
Executive Order No. 12866 (5 U.S.C. 601 note; relating to regulatory 
planning and review), issue advice revising the advice provided in the 
notice of availability entitled ``Advice About Eating Fish, From the 
Environmental Protection Agency and Food and Drug Administration; 
Revised Fish Advice; Availability'' (82 Fed. Reg. 6571 (January 19, 
2017)), in a manner that is consistent with nutrition science 
recognized by the Food and Drug Administration on the net effects of 
seafood consumption.
    Sec. 752.  In addition to any funds made available in this Act or 
any other Act, there is hereby appropriated $10,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021, for grants from the National 
Institute of Food and Agriculture to the 1890 Institutions to support 
the Centers of Excellence.
    Sec. 753.  There is hereby appropriated $1,000,000 for the 
Secretary of Agriculture to carry out a pilot program that assists 
rural hospitals to improve long-term operations and financial health by 
providing technical assistance through analysis of current hospital 
management practices.
    Sec. 754.  There is hereby appropriated $2,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for grants under section 12502 of Public Law 
115-334.
    Sec. 755.  The funds provided in section 753 of the Agriculture, 
Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2018, are rescinded.
    Sec. 756.  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall issue a final rule 
based on the proposed rule entitled ``National Organic Program; Origin 
of Livestock,'' published in the Federal Register on April 28, 2015 (80 
Fed. Reg. 23455):  Provided, That the final rule shall incorporate 
public comments submitted in response to the proposed rule.
    Sec. 757.  There is hereby appropriated $3,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021, to carry out section 4003(b) of 
Public Law 115-334 relating to demonstration projects for Tribal 
Organizations.
    Sec. 758.  Hereafter, and not withstanding any other provision of 
law, no funds available to the Department of Agriculture may be used to 
relocate an agency, or any part of an agency, that was located within 
the National Capital Region on August 1, 2018, to a site outside of the 
National Capital Region in the absence of the prior enactment of a 
specific appropriation for that relocation.
    Sec. 759.  Hereafter, and notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, no funds available to the Department of Agriculture may be used to 
move any agency from the mission area in which it was located on August 
1, 2018, to any other mission area or office within the Department in 
the absence of the enactment of specific legislation affirming such 
move.
    Sec. 760.  The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service shall, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law--
            (1) within 60 calendar days, restore on its website the 
        searchable database and its contents that were available on 
        January 30, 2017, and all content generated since that date; 
        and
            (2) hereafter, make publicly available via searchable 
        database, in their entirety without redactions except 
        signatures, the following--
                    (A) all Animal Welfare Act inspection reports, 
                including all reports documenting all AWA non-
                compliances observed by USDA officials and all animal 
                inventories;
                    (B) all Animal Welfare Act and Horse Protection Act 
                enforcement records;
                    (C) all reports or other materials documenting any 
                non-compliances observed by USDA officials; and
                    (D) all Animal Welfare Act research facility annual 
                reports, including their attachments.
    Sec. 761.  There is hereby appropriated $1,000,000 to carry out 
section 3307 of Public Law 115-334.
    Sec. 762.  The Secretary of Agriculture may waive the matching 
funds requirement under Section 412(g) of the Agricultural Research, 
Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7632(g)).
    Sec. 763.  There is hereby appropriated $10,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021, to carry out section 23 of the 
Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1793), of which $1,000,000 shall 
be for grants under such section to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, 
the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the United States 
Virgin Islands, and American Samoa.
    Sec. 764.  There is hereby appropriated $1,000,000 to carry out 
section 12607(b) of Public Law 115-334.
    Sec. 765.  Section 2 of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 
U.S.C. 902) is amended in subsection (a) by striking ``made by the 
Secretary'' and inserting ``made or guaranteed by the Secretary''.
    Sec. 766.  The National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility shall be 
transferred without reimbursement from the Secretary of Homeland 
Security to the Secretary of Agriculture.
    Sec. 767.  Any funds made available by this or any other Act that 
the Secretary withholds pursuant to section 1668(g)(2) of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5921(g)(2)), 
as amended, shall be available for grants for biotechnology risk 
assessment research:  Provided, That the Secretary may transfer such 
funds to appropriations of the Department of Agriculture.
    Sec. 768.  There is hereby appropriated $5,000,000 to carry out 
section 222 of Subtitle A of the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6923) as amended by section 12302 
of Public Law 115-334.
    Sec. 769.  There is hereby appropriated $400,000 to carry out 
section 224 of Subtitle A of the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6924) as amended by section 12504 
of Public Law 115-334.
    Sec. 770.  There is hereby appropriated $1,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021, to carry out section 4208 of Public 
Law 115-334.
    Sec. 771.  There is hereby appropriated $400,000 to carry out 
section 1672(g)(4)(B) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade 
Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5925(g)(4(B)) as amended by section 7209 of 
Public Law 115-334.
    Sec. 772.  There is hereby appropriated $10,000,000 to carry out 
section 12301 of Public Law 115-334.
    Sec. 773.  There is hereby appropriated $2,500,000 to carry out 
section 1450 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3222e) as amended by section 7120 
of Public Law 115-334.
    Sec. 774.  There is hereby appropriated $1,000,000 to carry out 
section 1671 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 
1990 (7 U.S.C. 5924) as amended by section 7208 of Public Law 115-334.
    Sec. 775.  There is hereby appropriated $5,000,000 to carry out 
section 310I of Subtitle A of Title III of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1936c) as amended by section 5104 of 
Public Law 115-334.
    Sec. 776.  There is hereby appropriated $7,000,000 for the purposes 
described in the paragraph entitled ``Nutrition Assistance Program 
(NAP) Study'' under the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program 
included in the report accompanying this Act.
    Sec. 777.  There is hereby appropriated $5,000,000 (increased by 
$5,000,000) to remain available until September 30, 2021, to carry out 
section 4206 of Public Law 115-334.
    Sec. 778.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to notify a sponsor or otherwise acknowledge receipt of a submission 
for an exemption for investigational use of a drug or biological 
product under section 505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic 
Act (21 U.S.C. 355(i)) or section 351(a)(3) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262(a)(3)) in research in which a human embryo 
is intentionally created or modified to include a heritable genetic 
modification. Any such submission shall be deemed to have not been 
received by the Secretary, and the exemption may not go into effect.
    Sec. 779.  None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Agriculture shall be used to finalize, issue, or implement the proposed 
rule entitled ``Modernization of Swine Slaughter Inspection'' published 
in the Federal Register by the Food Safety Inspection Service on 
February 1, 2018 (83 Fed. Reg. 4780 et seq.), including insofar as such 
rule relates to converting establishments, until--
            (1) the Office of the Inspector General of the Department 
        of Agriculture has provided to the Food Safety and Inspection 
        Service and the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives and the Senate findings on the data used in 
        support of the development and design of the swine slaughter 
        inspection program that is the subject of such proposed rule; 
        and
            (2) the Food Safety and Inspection Service has addressed 
        and resolved issues identified by the Inspector General in the 
        findings referred to in paragraph (1).
    Sec. 780.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to--
            (1) transfer the functions of, or eliminate, a Forest 
        Service Job Corps Civilian Conservation Center; or
            (2) alter the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture 
        with respect to the operation of such a Forest Service Job 
        Corps Civilian Conservation Center, as such jurisdiction was in 
        effect on January 1, 2019.
    Sec. 781.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as referring 
only to the provisions of this division.
    Sec. 782.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this Act'' 
contained in this division shall be treated as a reference to House 
Report 116-107. The effect of such Report shall be limited to this 
division and shall apply for purposes of determining the allocation of 
funds provided by, and the implementation of, this division.
    Sec. 783.  There is appropriated, for salaries and expenses of the 
Farm Service Agency to carry out section 1621 of the Food, 
Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8792), $1,996,000, to be 
derived from a reduction of $2,000,000 in the amount provided in this 
Act for the item for ``Office of the Secretary'' and ``Office of the 
Secretary--Office of Communications''.
    Sec. 784.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to remove the term ``climate change'' from any publication of any 
entity for which such funds are made available.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2020''.

   DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED 
                   AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020

    The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Department of the 
Interior, environment, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2020, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                       Bureau of Land Management

                   management of lands and resources

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For necessary expenses for protection, use, improvement, 
development, disposal, cadastral surveying, classification, acquisition 
of easements and other interests in lands, and performance of other 
functions, including maintenance of facilities, as authorized by law, 
in the management of lands and their resources under the jurisdiction 
of the Bureau of Land Management, including the general administration 
of the Bureau, and assessment of mineral potential of public lands 
pursuant to section 1010(a) of Public Law 96-487 (16 U.S.C. 3150(a)), 
$1,265,097,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021; of which 
$125,653,000 (increased by $1,500,000) (reduced by $1,500,000) for 
annual and deferred maintenance shall remain available until expended, 
and of which $6,000,000 is for a pilot program to complement activities 
authorized by Public Law 92-195:  Provided, That amounts in the fee 
account of the Bureau of Land Management permit process improvement 
fund may be used for bureau-related expenses directly associated with 
the processing of oil and gas applications for permits to drill and 
related use of authorizations.
    In addition, $39,696,000 is for Mining Law Administration program 
operations, including the cost of administering the mining claim fee 
program, to remain available until expended, to be reduced by amounts 
collected by the Bureau and credited to this appropriation from mining 
claim maintenance fees and location fees that are hereby authorized for 
fiscal year 2020, so as to result in a final appropriation estimated at 
not more than $1,265,097,000, and $2,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, from communication site rental fees established by the Bureau 
for the cost of administering communication site activities.
    Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available under this 
heading in fiscal year 2016 or before, $14,000,000 is permanently 
rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts 
that were designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                              construction

                    (including rescission of funds)

    Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available under this 
heading $5,000,000 is permanently rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts 
may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution on the 
Budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985.

                            land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out sections 205, 206, and 318(d) 
of Public Law 94-579, including administrative expenses and acquisition 
of lands or waters, or interests therein, $33,800,000, to be derived 
from the Land and Water Conservation Fund and to remain available until 
expended.

                   oregon and california grant lands

    For expenses necessary for management, protection, and development 
of resources and for construction, operation, and maintenance of access 
roads, reforestation, and other improvements on the revested Oregon and 
California Railroad grant lands, on other Federal lands in the Oregon 
and California land-grant counties of Oregon, and on adjacent rights-
of-way; and acquisition of lands or interests therein, including 
existing connecting roads on or adjacent to such grant lands; 
$117,195,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 25 
percent of the aggregate of all receipts during the current fiscal year 
from the revested Oregon and California Railroad grant lands is hereby 
made a charge against the Oregon and California land-grant fund and 
shall be transferred to the General Fund in the Treasury in accordance 
with the second paragraph of subsection (b) of title II of the Act of 
August 28, 1937 (43 U.S.C. 2605).

                           range improvements

    For rehabilitation, protection, and acquisition of lands and 
interests therein, and improvement of Federal rangelands pursuant to 
section 401 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
U.S.C. 1751), notwithstanding any other Act, sums equal to 50 percent 
of all moneys received during the prior fiscal year under sections 3 
and 15 of the Taylor Grazing Act (43 U.S.C. 315b, 315m) and the amount 
designated for range improvements from grazing fees and mineral leasing 
receipts from Bankhead-Jones lands transferred to the Department of the 
Interior pursuant to law, but not less than $10,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That not to exceed $600,000 shall 
be available for administrative expenses.

               service charges, deposits, and forfeitures

    For administrative expenses and other costs related to processing 
application documents and other authorizations for use and disposal of 
public lands and resources, for costs of providing copies of official 
public land documents, for monitoring construction, operation, and 
termination of facilities in conjunction with use authorizations, and 
for rehabilitation of damaged property, such amounts as may be 
collected under Public Law 94-579 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and under 
section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 185), to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding any provision 
to the contrary of section 305(a) of Public Law 94-579 (43 U.S.C. 
1735(a)), any moneys that have been or will be received pursuant to 
that section, whether as a result of forfeiture, compromise, or 
settlement, if not appropriate for refund pursuant to section 305(c) of 
that Act (43 U.S.C. 1735(c)), shall be available and may be expended 
under the authority of this Act by the Secretary to improve, protect, 
or rehabilitate any public lands administered through the Bureau of 
Land Management which have been damaged by the action of a resource 
developer, purchaser, permittee, or any unauthorized person, without 
regard to whether all moneys collected from each such action are used 
on the exact lands damaged which led to the action:  Provided further, 
That any such moneys that are in excess of amounts needed to repair 
damage to the exact land for which funds were collected may be used to 
repair other damaged public lands.

                       miscellaneous trust funds

    In addition to amounts authorized to be expended under existing 
laws, there is hereby appropriated such amounts as may be contributed 
under section 307 of Public Law 94-579 (43 U.S.C. 1737), and such 
amounts as may be advanced for administrative costs, surveys, 
appraisals, and costs of making conveyances of omitted lands under 
section 211(b) of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1721(b)), to remain available 
until expended.

                       administrative provisions

    The Bureau of Land Management may carry out the operations funded 
under this Act by direct expenditure, contracts, grants, cooperative 
agreements and reimbursable agreements with public and private 
entities, including with States. Appropriations for the Bureau shall be 
available for purchase, erection, and dismantlement of temporary 
structures, and alteration and maintenance of necessary buildings and 
appurtenant facilities to which the United States has title; up to 
$100,000 for payments, at the discretion of the Secretary, for 
information or evidence concerning violations of laws administered by 
the Bureau; miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement 
activities authorized or approved by the Secretary and to be accounted 
for solely on the Secretary's certificate, not to exceed $10,000:  
Provided, That notwithstanding Public Law 90-620 (44 U.S.C. 501), the 
Bureau may, under cooperative cost-sharing and partnership arrangements 
authorized by law, procure printing services from cooperators in 
connection with jointly produced publications for which the cooperators 
share the cost of printing either in cash or in services, and the 
Bureau determines the cooperator is capable of meeting accepted quality 
standards:  Provided further, That projects to be funded pursuant to a 
written commitment by a State government to provide an identified 
amount of money in support of the project may be carried out by the 
Bureau on a reimbursable basis. Appropriations herein made shall not be 
available for the destruction of healthy, unadopted, wild horses and 
burros in the care of the Bureau or its contractors or for the sale of 
wild horses and burros that results in their destruction for processing 
into commercial products.

                United States Fish and Wildlife Service

                          resource management

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service, as authorized by law, and for scientific and economic studies, 
general administration, and for the performance of other authorized 
functions related to such resources, $1,364,760,000 (reduced by 
$1,720,000) (increased by $1,720,000) (reduced by $200,000) (increased 
by $200,000), to remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, 
That not to exceed $23,442,000 shall be used for implementing 
subsections (a), (b), (c), and (e) of section 4 of the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533) (except for processing petitions, 
developing and issuing proposed and final regulations, and taking any 
other steps to implement actions described in subsection (c)(2)(A), 
(c)(2)(B)(i), or (c)(2)(B)(ii)).
    Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available under this 
heading, in accordance with the joint explanatory statement 
accompanying the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019, for central 
office operations in fiscal year 2019, $4,000,000 is permanently 
rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts 
that were designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                              construction

    For construction, improvement, acquisition, or removal of buildings 
and other facilities required in the conservation, management, 
investigation, protection, and utilization of fish and wildlife 
resources, and the acquisition of lands and interests therein; 
$15,693,000, to remain available until expended.

                            land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out chapter 2003 of title 54, 
United States Code, including administrative expenses, and for 
acquisition of land or waters, or interest therein, in accordance with 
statutory authority applicable to the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service, $67,750,000, to be derived from the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund and to remain available until expended, of which, 
notwithstanding section 200306 of title 54, United States Code, not 
more than $10,000,000 shall be for land conservation partnerships 
authorized by the Highlands Conservation Act of 2004, including not to 
exceed $320,000 for administrative expenses:  Provided, That none of 
the funds appropriated for specific land acquisition projects may be 
used to pay for any administrative overhead, planning or other 
management costs.

            cooperative endangered species conservation fund

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For expenses necessary to carry out section 6 of the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1535), $63,702,000, to remain available 
until expended, of which $23,702,000 is to be derived from the 
Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund; and of which 
$40,000,000 is to be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund.
    Of the unobligated balances made available from the Cooperative 
Endangered Species Conservation Fund, $10,000,000 is permanently 
rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts 
that were designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     national wildlife refuge fund

    For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 17, 1978 (16 
U.S.C. 715s), $13,228,000.

               north american wetlands conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the North 
American Wetlands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4401 et seq.), 
$50,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                neotropical migratory bird conservation

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Neotropical Migratory Bird 
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), $4,910,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                multinational species conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the African Elephant 
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4201 et seq.), the Asian Elephant 
Conservation Act of 1997 (16 U.S.C. 4261 et seq.), the Rhinoceros and 
Tiger Conservation Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), the Great Ape 
Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.), and the Marine 
Turtle Conservation Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.), $15,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                    state and tribal wildlife grants

    For wildlife conservation grants to States and to the District of 
Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the 
Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, and Indian tribes under the 
provisions of the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 and the Fish and 
Wildlife Coordination Act, for the development and implementation of 
programs for the benefit of wildlife and their habitat, including 
species that are not hunted or fished, $70,571,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That of the amount provided herein, 
$5,209,000 is for a competitive grant program for Indian tribes not 
subject to the remaining provisions of this appropriation:  Provided 
further, That $7,362,000 is for a competitive grant program to 
implement approved plans for States, territories, and other 
jurisdictions and at the discretion of affected States, the regional 
Associations of fish and wildlife agencies, not subject to the 
remaining provisions of this appropriation:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall, after deducting $12,571,000 and administrative 
expenses, apportion the amount provided herein in the following manner: 
(1) to the District of Columbia and to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, 
each a sum equal to not more than one-half of 1 percent thereof; and 
(2) to Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, each a sum equal to not 
more than one-fourth of 1 percent thereof:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall apportion the remaining amount in the following manner: 
(1) one-third of which is based on the ratio to which the land area of 
such State bears to the total land area of all such States; and (2) 
two-thirds of which is based on the ratio to which the population of 
such State bears to the total population of all such States:  Provided 
further, That the amounts apportioned under this paragraph shall be 
adjusted equitably so that no State shall be apportioned a sum which is 
less than 1 percent of the amount available for apportionment under 
this paragraph for any fiscal year or more than 5 percent of such 
amount:  Provided further, That the Federal share of planning grants 
shall not exceed 75 percent of the total costs of such projects and the 
Federal share of implementation grants shall not exceed 65 percent of 
the total costs of such projects:  Provided further, That the non-
Federal share of such projects may not be derived from Federal grant 
programs:  Provided further, That any amount apportioned in 2020 to any 
State, territory, or other jurisdiction that remains unobligated as of 
September 30, 2021, shall be reapportioned, together with funds 
appropriated in 2022, in the manner provided herein.

                       administrative provisions

    The United States Fish and Wildlife Service may carry out the 
operations of Service programs by direct expenditure, contracts, 
grants, cooperative agreements and reimbursable agreements with public 
and private entities. Appropriations and funds available to the United 
States Fish and Wildlife Service shall be available for repair of 
damage to public roads within and adjacent to reservation areas caused 
by operations of the Service; options for the purchase of land at not 
to exceed $1 for each option; facilities incident to such public 
recreational uses on conservation areas as are consistent with their 
primary purpose; and the maintenance and improvement of aquaria, 
buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of the Service 
and to which the United States has title, and which are used pursuant 
to law in connection with management, and investigation of fish and 
wildlife resources:  Provided, That notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the 
Service may, under cooperative cost sharing and partnership 
arrangements authorized by law, procure printing services from 
cooperators in connection with jointly produced publications for which 
the cooperators share at least one-half the cost of printing either in 
cash or services and the Service determines the cooperator is capable 
of meeting accepted quality standards:  Provided further, That the 
Service may accept donated aircraft as replacements for existing 
aircraft:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, all 
fees collected for non-toxic shot review and approval shall be 
deposited under the heading ``United States Fish and Wildlife Service--
Resource Management'' and shall be available to the Secretary, without 
further appropriation, to be used for expenses of processing of such 
non-toxic shot type or coating applications and revising regulations as 
necessary, and shall remain available until expended.

                         National Park Service

                 operation of the national park system

    For expenses necessary for the management, operation, and 
maintenance of areas and facilities administered by the National Park 
Service and for the general administration of the National Park 
Service, $2,646,979,000, of which $10,282,000 for planning and 
interagency coordination in support of Everglades restoration and 
$150,980,000 for maintenance, repair, or rehabilitation projects for 
constructed assets and $166,575,000 for cyclic maintenance projects for 
constructed assets and cultural resources and $5,000,000 shall be for 
uses authorized by section 101122 of title 54, United States Code shall 
remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That funds 
appropriated under this heading in this Act are available for the 
purposes of section 5 of Public Law 95-348:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 9(a) of the United States Semiquincentennial 
Commission Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-196; 130 Stat. 691), $500,000 of 
the funds made available under this heading shall be provided to the 
organization selected under section 9(b) of that Act for expenditure by 
the United States Semiquincentennial Commission in accordance with that 
Act.  Provided further, That notwithstanding section 9 of the 400 Years 
of African-American History Commission Act (Public Law 115-102; 131 
Stat. 2248), $500,000 (increased by $500,000) of the funds made 
available under this heading shall be provided to the 400 Years of 
African-American History Commission for expenditure in accordance with 
that Act.

                  national recreation and preservation

    For expenses necessary to carry out recreation programs, natural 
programs, cultural programs, heritage partnership programs, 
environmental compliance and review, international park affairs, and 
grant administration, not otherwise provided for, $73,508,000.

                       historic preservation fund

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the National Historic 
Preservation Act (division A of subtitle III of title 54, United States 
Code), $121,660,000, to be derived from the Historic Preservation Fund 
and to remain available until September 30, 2021, of which $16,000,000 
shall be for Save America's Treasures grants for preservation of 
national significant sites, structures and artifacts as authorized by 
section 7303 of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 (54 
U.S.C. 3089):  Provided, That an individual Save America's Treasures 
grant shall be matched by non-Federal funds:  Provided further, That 
individual projects shall only be eligible for one grant:  Provided 
further, That all projects to be funded shall be approved by the 
Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That of the funds 
provided for the Historic Preservation Fund, $750,000 is for 
competitive grants for the survey and nomination of properties to the 
National Register of Historic Places and as National Historic Landmarks 
associated with communities currently under-represented, as determined 
by the Secretary, $22,500,000 is for competitive grants to preserve the 
sites and stories of the Civil Rights movement, $10,000,000 is for 
grants to Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and $5,000,000 
is for competitive grants for the restoration of historic properties of 
national, State and local significance listed on or eligible for 
inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places, to be made 
without imposing the usage or direct grant restrictions of section 
101(e)(3) (54 U.S.C. 302904) of the National Historical Preservation 
Act:  Provided further, That such competitive grants shall be made 
without imposing the matching requirements in section 302902(b)(3) of 
title 54, United States Code, to States and Indian tribes as defined in 
chapter 3003 of such title, Native Hawaiian organizations, local 
governments, including Certified Local Governments, and non-profit 
organizations.

                              construction

    For construction, improvements, repair, or replacement of physical 
facilities, and compliance and planning for programs and areas 
administered by the National Park Service, $319,704,000 (increased by 
$1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000), to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
for any project initially funded in fiscal year 2021 with a future 
phase indicated in the National Park Service 5-Year Line Item 
Construction Plan, a single procurement may be issued which includes 
the full scope of the project:  Provided further, That the solicitation 
and contract shall contain the clause availability of funds found at 48 
CFR 52.232-18:  Provided further, That National Park Service Donations, 
Park Concessions Franchise Fees, and Recreation Fees may be made 
available for the cost of adjustments and changes within the original 
scope of effort for projects funded by the National Park Service 
Construction appropriation:  Provided further, That the Secretary of 
the Interior shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations, in 
accordance with current reprogramming thresholds, prior to making any 
charges authorized by this section.

                    land and water conservation fund

                              (rescission)

    The contract authority provided for fiscal year 2020 by section 
200308 of title 54, United States Code, is rescinded.

                 land acquisition and state assistance

    For expenses necessary to carry out chapter 2003 of title 54, 
United States Code, including administrative expenses, and for 
acquisition of lands or waters, or interest therein, in accordance with 
the statutory authority applicable to the National Park Service, 
$208,400,000 (increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000), to be 
derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund and to remain 
available until expended, of which $140,000,000 is for the State 
assistance program and of which $15,000,000 shall be for the American 
Battlefield Protection Program grants as authorized by chapter 3081 of 
title 54, United States Code.

                          centennial challenge

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of section 
101701 of title 54, United States Code, relating to challenge cost 
share agreements, $20,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
Centennial Challenge projects and programs:  Provided, That not less 
than 50 percent of the total cost of each project or program shall be 
derived from non-Federal sources in the form of donated cash, assets, 
or a pledge of donation guaranteed by an irrevocable letter of credit.

                       administrative provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    In addition to other uses set forth in section 101917(c)(2) of 
title 54, United States Code, franchise fees credited to a sub-account 
shall be available for expenditure by the Secretary, without further 
appropriation, for use at any unit within the National Park System to 
extinguish or reduce liability for Possessory Interest or leasehold 
surrender interest. Such funds may only be used for this purpose to the 
extent that the benefitting unit anticipated franchise fee receipts 
over the term of the contract at that unit exceed the amount of funds 
used to extinguish or reduce liability. Franchise fees at the 
benefitting unit shall be credited to the sub-account of the 
originating unit over a period not to exceed the term of a single 
contract at the benefitting unit, in the amount of funds so expended to 
extinguish or reduce liability.
    For the costs of administration of the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund grants authorized by section 105(a)(2)(B) of the Gulf of Mexico 
Energy Security Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-432), the National Park 
Service may retain up to 3 percent of the amounts which are authorized 
to be disbursed under such section, such retained amounts to remain 
available until expended.
    National Park Service funds may be transferred to the Federal 
Highway Administration (FHWA), Department of Transportation, for 
purposes authorized under 23 U.S.C. 204. Transfers may include a 
reasonable amount for FHWA administrative support costs.

                    United States Geological Survey

                 surveys, investigations, and research

    For expenses necessary for the United States Geological Survey to 
perform surveys, investigations, and research covering topography, 
geology, hydrology, biology, and the mineral and water resources of the 
United States, its territories and possessions, and other areas as 
authorized by 43 U.S.C. 31, 1332, and 1340; classify lands as to their 
mineral and water resources; give engineering supervision to power 
permittees and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission licensees; 
administer the minerals exploration program (30 U.S.C. 641); conduct 
inquiries into the economic conditions affecting mining and materials 
processing industries (30 U.S.C. 3, 21a, and 1603; 50 U.S.C. 98g(1)) 
and related purposes as authorized by law; and to publish and 
disseminate data relative to the foregoing activities; $1,236,398,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2021; of which $84,337,000 
shall remain available until expended for satellite operations; and of 
which $20,164,000 shall be available until expended for deferred 
maintenance and capital improvement projects that exceed $100,000 in 
cost:  Provided, That none of the funds provided for the ecosystem 
research activity shall be used to conduct new surveys on private 
property, unless specifically authorized in writing by the property 
owner:  Provided further, That no part of this appropriation shall be 
used to pay more than one-half the cost of topographic mapping or water 
resources data collection and investigations carried on in cooperation 
with States and municipalities.

                       administrative provisions

    From within the amount appropriated for activities of the United 
States Geological Survey such sums as are necessary shall be available 
for contracting for the furnishing of topographic maps and for the 
making of geophysical or other specialized surveys when it is 
administratively determined that such procedures are in the public 
interest; construction and maintenance of necessary buildings and 
appurtenant facilities; acquisition of lands for gauging stations, 
observation wells, and seismic equipment; expenses of the United States 
National Committee for Geological Sciences; and payment of compensation 
and expenses of persons employed by the Survey duly appointed to 
represent the United States in the negotiation and administration of 
interstate compacts:  Provided, That activities funded by 
appropriations herein made may be accomplished through the use of 
contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements as defined in section 6302 
of title 31, United States Code:  Provided further, That the United 
States Geological Survey may enter into contracts or cooperative 
agreements directly with individuals or indirectly with institutions or 
nonprofit organizations, without regard to 41 U.S.C. 6101, for the 
temporary or intermittent services of students or recent graduates, who 
shall be considered employees for the purpose of chapters 57 and 81 of 
title 5, United States Code, relating to compensation for travel and 
work injuries, and chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code, 
relating to tort claims, but shall not be considered to be Federal 
employees for any other purposes.

                   Bureau of Ocean Energy Management

                        ocean energy management

    For expenses necessary for granting and administering leases, 
easements, rights-of-way and agreements for use for oil and gas, other 
minerals, energy, and marine-related purposes on the Outer Continental 
Shelf and approving operations related thereto, as authorized by law; 
for environmental studies, as authorized by law; for implementing other 
laws and to the extent provided by Presidential or Secretarial 
delegation; and for matching grants or cooperative agreements, 
$182,781,000, of which $122,781,000 is to remain available until 
September 30, 2021, and of which $60,000,000 is to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That this total appropriation shall be 
reduced by amounts collected by the Secretary and credited to this 
appropriation from additions to receipts resulting from increases to 
lease rental rates in effect on August 5, 1993, and from cost recovery 
fees from activities conducted by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management 
pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, including studies, 
assessments, analysis, and miscellaneous administrative activities:  
Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as 
such collections are received during the fiscal year, so as to result 
in a final fiscal year 2020 appropriation estimated at not more than 
$122,781,000:  Provided further, That not to exceed $3,000 shall be 
available for reasonable expenses related to promoting volunteer beach 
and marine cleanup activities.

             Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement

             offshore safety and environmental enforcement

    For expenses necessary for the regulation of operations related to 
leases, easements, rights-of-way and agreements for use for oil and 
gas, other minerals, energy, and marine-related purposes on the Outer 
Continental Shelf, as authorized by law; for enforcing and implementing 
laws and regulations as authorized by law and to the extent provided by 
Presidential or Secretarial delegation; and for matching grants or 
cooperative agreements, $145,504,000, of which $119,504,000 is to 
remain available until September 30, 2021, and of which $26,000,000 is 
to remain available until expended:  Provided, That this total 
appropriation shall be reduced by amounts collected by the Secretary 
and credited to this appropriation from additions to receipts resulting 
from increases to lease rental rates in effect on August 5, 1993, and 
from cost recovery fees from activities conducted by the Bureau of 
Safety and Environmental Enforcement pursuant to the Outer Continental 
Shelf Lands Act, including studies, assessments, analysis, and 
miscellaneous administrative activities:  Provided further, That the 
sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as such collections are 
received during the fiscal year, so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2020 appropriation estimated at not more than $119,504,000.
    For an additional amount, $47,308,000, to remain available until 
expended, to be reduced by amounts collected by the Secretary and 
credited to this appropriation, which shall be derived from non-
refundable inspection fees collected in fiscal year 2020, as provided 
in this Act:  Provided, That to the extent that amounts realized from 
such inspection fees exceed $47,308,000, the amounts realized in excess 
of $47,308,000 shall be credited to this appropriation and remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That for fiscal year 2020, 
not less than 50 percent of the inspection fees expended by the Bureau 
of Safety and Environmental Enforcement will be used to fund personnel 
and mission-related costs to expand capacity and expedite the orderly 
development, subject to environmental safeguards, of the Outer 
Continental Shelf pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 
U.S.C. 1331 et seq.), including the review of applications for permits 
to drill.

                           oil spill research

    For necessary expenses to carry out title I, section 1016, title 
IV, sections 4202 and 4303, title VII, and title VIII, section 8201 of 
the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $14,899,000, which shall be derived from 
the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, to remain available until expended.

          Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement

                       regulation and technology

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Surface 
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, 
$121,647,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, 
That appropriations for the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement may provide for the travel and per diem expenses of State 
and tribal personnel attending Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement sponsored training.
    In addition, for costs to review, administer, and enforce permits 
issued by the Office pursuant to section 507 of Public Law 95-87 (30 
U.S.C. 1257), $40,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That fees assessed and collected by the Office pursuant to such section 
507 shall be credited to this account as discretionary offsetting 
collections, to remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced 
as collections are received during the fiscal year, so as to result in 
a fiscal year 2020 appropriation estimated at not more than 
$121,647,000.

                    abandoned mine reclamation fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out title IV of the Surface Mining 
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, $24,713,000, to 
be derived from receipts of the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund and to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That pursuant to Public Law 
97-365, the Department of the Interior is authorized to use up to 20 
percent from the recovery of the delinquent debt owed to the United 
States Government to pay for contracts to collect these debts:  
Provided further, That funds made available under title IV of Public 
Law 95-87 may be used for any required non-Federal share of the cost of 
projects funded by the Federal Government for the purpose of 
environmental restoration related to treatment or abatement of acid 
mine drainage from abandoned mines:  Provided further, That such 
projects must be consistent with the purposes and priorities of the 
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act:  Provided further, That 
amounts provided under this heading may be used for the travel and per 
diem expenses of State and tribal personnel attending Office of Surface 
Mining Reclamation and Enforcement sponsored training.
    In addition, $115,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
grants to States and federally recognized Indian Tribes for reclamation 
of abandoned mine lands and other related activities in accordance with 
the terms and conditions in the report accompanying this Act:  
Provided, That such additional amount shall be used for economic and 
community development in conjunction with the priorities in section 
403(a) of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 
U.S.C. 1233(a)):  Provided further, That of such additional amount, 
$75,000,000 shall be distributed in equal amounts to the 3 Appalachian 
States with the greatest amount of unfunded needs to meet the 
priorities described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of such section, 
$30,000,000 shall be distributed in equal amounts to the 3 Appalachian 
States with the subsequent greatest amount of unfunded needs to meet 
such priorities, and $10,000,000 shall be for grants to federally 
recognized Indian Tribes without regard to their status as certified or 
uncertified under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 
1977 (30 U.S.C. 1233(a)), for reclamation of abandoned mine lands and 
other related activities in accordance with the terms and conditions in 
the report accompanying this Act and shall be used for economic and 
community development in conjunction with the priorities in section 
403(a) of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977:  
Provided further, That such additional amount shall be allocated to 
States and Indian Tribes within 60 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs

                      operation of indian programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the operation of Indian programs, as 
authorized by law, including the Snyder Act of November 2, 1921 (25 
U.S.C. 13), the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), $1,650,504,000 (increased by 
$176,000,000) (reduced by $176,000,000) to remain available until 
September 30, 2021, except as otherwise provided herein; of which not 
to exceed $8,500 may be for official reception and representation 
expenses; of which not to exceed $77,734,000 shall be for welfare 
assistance payments:  Provided, That in cases of designated Federal 
disasters, the Secretary may exceed such cap, from the amounts provided 
herein, to provide for disaster relief to Indian communities affected 
by the disaster:  Provided further, That federally recognized Indian 
tribes and tribal organizations of federally recognized Indian tribes 
may use their tribal priority allocations for unmet welfare assistance 
costs:  Provided further, That not to exceed $73,164,000 shall remain 
available until expended for housing improvement, road maintenance, 
attorney fees, litigation support, land records improvement, and the 
Navajo-Hopi Settlement Program:  Provided further, That any forestry 
funds allocated to a federally recognized tribe which remain 
unobligated as of September 30, 2021, may be transferred during fiscal 
year 2022 to an Indian forest land assistance account established for 
the benefit of the holder of the funds within the holder's trust fund 
account:  Provided further, That any such unobligated balances not so 
transferred shall expire on September 30, 2022:  Provided further, That 
in order to enhance the safety of Bureau field employees, the Bureau 
may use funds to purchase uniforms or other identifying articles of 
clothing for personnel:  Provided further, That the Bureau of Indian 
Affairs may accept transfers of funds from United States Customs and 
Border Protection to supplement any other funding available for 
reconstruction or repair of roads owned by the Bureau of Indian Affairs 
as identified on the National Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory, 
23 U.S.C. 202(b)(1).

                         contract support costs

    For payments to tribes and tribal organizations for contract 
support costs associated with Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act agreements with the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the 
Bureau of Indian Education for fiscal year 2020, such sums as may be 
necessary, which shall be available for obligation through September 
30, 2021:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
no amounts made available under this heading shall be available for 
transfer to another budget account.

                              construction

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For construction, repair, improvement, and maintenance of 
irrigation and power systems, buildings, utilities, and other 
facilities, including architectural and engineering services by 
contract; acquisition of lands, and interests in lands; and preparation 
of lands for farming, and for construction of the Navajo Indian 
Irrigation Project pursuant to Public Law 87-483; $146,014,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That such amounts as may be 
available for the construction of the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project 
may be transferred to the Bureau of Reclamation:  Provided further, 
That not to exceed 6 percent of contract authority available to the 
Bureau of Indian Affairs from the Federal Highway Trust Fund may be 
used to cover the road program management costs of the Bureau:  
Provided further, That any funds provided for the Safety of Dams 
program pursuant to the Act of November 2, 1921 (25 U.S.C. 13), shall 
be made available on a nonreimbursable basis:  Provided further, That 
this appropriation may be reimbursed from the Office of the Special 
Trustee for American Indians appropriation for the appropriate share of 
construction costs for space expansion needed in agency offices to meet 
trust reform implementation:  Provided further, That of the funds made 
available under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be derived from the 
Indian Irrigation Fund established by section 3211 of the WIIN Act 
(Public Law 114-322; 130 Stat. 1749).

 indian land and water claim settlements and miscellaneous payments to 
                                indians

    For payments and necessary administrative expenses for 
implementation of Indian land and water claim settlements pursuant to 
Public Laws 99-264, 100-580, 101-618, 111-11, 111-291, and 114-322, and 
for implementation of other land and water rights settlements, 
$45,644,000, to remain available until expended.

                 indian guaranteed loan program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans and insured loans, $12,784,000, of 
which $1,725,000 is for administrative expenses, as authorized by the 
Indian Financing Act of 1974:  Provided, That such costs, including the 
cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That these funds 
are available to subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is 
to be guaranteed or insured, not to exceed $199,075,370.

                       administrative provisions

    The Bureau of Indian Affairs may carry out the operation of Indian 
programs by direct expenditure, contracts, cooperative agreements, 
compacts, and grants, either directly or in cooperation with States and 
other organizations.
    Notwithstanding Public Law 87-279 (25 U.S.C. 15), the Bureau of 
Indian Affairs may contract for services in support of the management, 
operation, and maintenance of the Power Division of the San Carlos 
Irrigation Project.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds available to 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs for central office oversight and Executive 
Direction and Administrative Services (except executive direction and 
administrative services funding for Tribal Priority Allocations, 
regional offices, and facilities operations and maintenance) shall be 
available for contracts, grants, compacts, or cooperative agreements 
with the Bureau of Indian Affairs under the provisions of the Indian 
Self-Determination Act or the Tribal Self-Governance Act of 1994 
(Public Law 103-413).
    In the event any tribe returns appropriations made available by 
this Act to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, this action shall not 
diminish the Federal Government's trust responsibility to that tribe, 
or the government-to-government relationship between the United States 
and that tribe, or that tribe's ability to access future 
appropriations.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including section 113 
of title I of appendix C of Public Law 106-113, if in fiscal year 2003 
or 2004 a grantee received indirect and administrative costs pursuant 
to a distribution formula based on section 5(f) of Public Law 101-301, 
the Secretary shall continue to distribute indirect and administrative 
cost funds to such grantee using the section 5(f) distribution formula.

                       Bureau of Indian Education

                 operation of indian education programs

    For expenses necessary for the operation of Indian Education 
programs, as authorized by law, including the Snyder Act of November 2, 
1921 (25 U.S.C. 13), the Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), the Education 
Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2001-2019), and the Tribally Controlled 
Schools Act of 1988 (25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), $1,000,233,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021, except as otherwise provided 
herein: Provided, That federally recognized Indian tribes and tribal 
organizations of federally recognized Indian tribes may use their 
Tribal priority allocations for unmet welfare assistance costs: 
Provided further, That not to exceed $721,690,000 for school operation 
costs of Bureau-funded schools and other education programs shall 
become available on July 1, 2020, and shall remain available until 
September 30, 2021: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, including but not limited to the Indian Self-
Determination Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) and section 1128 of 
the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2008), not to exceed 
$81,508,000 within and only from such amounts made available for school 
operations shall be available for administrative cost grants associated 
with grants approved prior to July 1, 2020: Provided further, That in 
order to enhance the safety of Bureau field employees, the Bureau may 
use funds to purchase uniforms or other identifying articles of 
clothing for personnel.

                         education construction

    For construction, repair, improvement, and maintenance of 
buildings, utilities, and other facilities necessary for the operation 
of Indian Education programs, including architectural and engineering 
services by contract; acquisition of lands, and interests in lands; 
$387,252,000 to remain available until expended; Provided, That for 
fiscal year 2020, in implementing new construction, replacement 
facilities construction, or facilities improvement and repair project 
grants in excess of $100,000 that are provided to grant schools under 
Public Law 100-297, the Secretary of the Interior shall use the 
Administrative and Audit Requirements and Cost Principles for 
Assistance Programs contained in part 12 of title 43, Code of Federal 
Regulations, as the regulatory requirements: Provided further, That 
such grants shall not be subject to section 12.61 of title 43, Code of 
Federal Regulations; the Secretary and the grantee shall negotiate and 
determine a schedule of payments for the work to be performed: Provided 
further, That in considering grant applications, the Secretary shall 
consider whether such grantee would be deficient in assuring that the 
construction projects conform to applicable building standards and 
codes and Federal, tribal, or State health and safety standards as 
required by section 1125(b) of title XI of Public Law 95-561 (25 U.S.C. 
2005(b)), with respect to organizational and financial management 
capabilities: Provided further, That if the Secretary declines a grant 
application, the Secretary shall follow the requirements contained in 
section 5206(f) of Public Law 100-297 (25 U.S.C. 2504(f)): Provided 
further, That any disputes between the Secretary and any grantee 
concerning a grant shall be subject to the disputes provision in 
section 5208(e) of Public Law 107-110 (25 U.S.C. 2507(e)): Provided 
further, That in order to ensure timely completion of construction 
projects, the Secretary may assume control of a project and all funds 
related to the project, if, not later than 18 months after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, any grantee receiving funds appropriated in 
this Act or in any prior Act, has not completed the planning and design 
phase of the project and commenced construction.

                       administrative provisions

    The Bureau of Indian Education may carry out the operation of 
Indian programs by direct expenditure, contracts, cooperative 
agreements, compacts, and grants, either directly or in cooperation 
with States and other organizations.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds available to 
the Bureau of Indian Education for central office oversight and 
Executive Direction and Administrative Services (except executive 
direction and administrative services funding for Tribal Priority 
Allocations, regional offices, and facilities operations and 
maintenance) shall be available for contracts, grants, compacts, or 
cooperative agreements with the Bureau of Indian Education under the 
provisions of the Indian Self-Determination Act or the Tribal Self-
Governance Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-413).
    In the event any tribe returns appropriations made available by 
this Act to the Bureau of Indian Education, this action shall not 
diminish the Federal Government's trust responsibility to that tribe, 
or the government-to-government relationship between the United States 
and that tribe, or that tribe's ability to access future 
appropriations.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds available to 
the Bureau of Indian Education, other than the amounts provided herein 
for assistance to public schools under 25 U.S.C. 452 et seq., shall be 
available to support the operation of any elementary or secondary 
school in the State of Alaska.
    No funds available to the Bureau of Indian Education shall be used 
to support expanded grades for any school or dormitory beyond the grade 
structure in place or approved by the Secretary of the Interior at each 
school in the Bureau of Indian Education school system as of October 1, 
1995, except that the Secretary of the Interior may waive this 
prohibition to support expansion of up to one additional grade when the 
Secretary determines such waiver is needed to support accomplishment of 
the mission of the Bureau of Indian Education, or more than one grade 
to expand the elementary grade structure for Bureau-funded schools with 
a K-2 grade structure on October 1, 1996. Appropriations made available 
in this or any prior Act for schools funded by the Bureau shall be 
available, in accordance with the Bureau's funding formula, only to the 
schools in the Bureau school system as of September 1, 1996, and to any 
school or school program that was reinstated in fiscal year 2012. Funds 
made available under this Act may not be used to establish a charter 
school at a Bureau-funded school (as that term is defined in section 
1141 of the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2021)), except that 
a charter school that is in existence on the date of the enactment of 
this Act and that has operated at a Bureau-funded school before 
September 1, 1999, may continue to operate during that period, but only 
if the charter school pays to the Bureau a pro rata share of funds to 
reimburse the Bureau for the use of the real and personal property 
(including buses and vans), the funds of the charter school are kept 
separate and apart from Bureau funds, and the Bureau does not assume 
any obligation for charter school programs of the State in which the 
school is located if the charter school loses such funding. Employees 
of Bureau-funded schools sharing a campus with a charter school and 
performing functions related to the charter school's operation and 
employees of a charter school shall not be treated as Federal employees 
for purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including section 113 
of title I of appendix C of Public Law 106-113, if in fiscal year 2003 
or 2004 a grantee received indirect and administrative costs pursuant 
to a distribution formula based on section 5(f) of Public Law 101-301, 
the Secretary shall continue to distribute indirect and administrative 
cost funds to such grantee using the section 5(f) distribution formula.
    Funds available under this Act may not be used to establish 
satellite locations of schools in the Bureau school system as of 
September 1, 1996, except that the Secretary may waive this prohibition 
in order for an Indian tribe to provide language and cultural immersion 
educational programs for non-public schools located within the 
jurisdictional area of the tribal government which exclusively serve 
tribal members, do not include grades beyond those currently served at 
the existing Bureau-funded school, provide an educational environment 
with educator presence and academic facilities comparable to the 
Bureau-funded school, comply with all applicable Tribal, Federal, or 
State health and safety standards, and the Americans with Disabilities 
Act, and demonstrate the benefits of establishing operations at a 
satellite location in lieu of incurring extraordinary costs, such as 
for transportation or other impacts to students such as those caused by 
busing students extended distances:  Provided, That no funds available 
under this Act may be used to fund operations, maintenance, 
rehabilitation, construction or other facilities-related costs for such 
assets that are not owned by the Bureau:  Provided further, That the 
term ``satellite school'' means a school location physically separated 
from the existing Bureau school by more than 50 miles but that forms 
part of the existing school in all other respects.

                          Departmental Offices

                        Office of the Secretary

                        departmental operations

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for management of the Department of the 
Interior and for grants and cooperative agreements, as authorized by 
law, $131,232,000 (increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000) 
(reduced by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) (reduced by 
$1,000,000), to remain available until September 30, 2021; of which no 
less than $1,000,000 shall be for the hiring of additional personnel to 
assist the Department with its compliance responsibilities under 5 
U.S.C. 552; of which not to exceed $15,000 may be for official 
reception and representation expenses; and of which up to $1,000,000 
shall be available for workers compensation payments and unemployment 
compensation payments associated with the orderly closure of the United 
States Bureau of Mines; and of which $9,000,000 for the Office of 
Valuation Services is to be derived from the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund and shall remain available until expended; and of 
which $11,061,000 for Indian land, mineral, and resource valuation 
activities shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That funds 
for Indian land, mineral, and resource valuation activities may, as 
needed, be transferred to and merged with the Bureau of Indian Affairs 
``Operation of Indian Programs'' and Bureau of Indian Education 
``Operation of Indian Education Programs'' accounts and the Office of 
the Special Trustee for American Indians ``Federal Trust Programs'' 
account:  Provided further, That funds made available through contracts 
or grants obligated during fiscal year 2020, as authorized by the 
Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), shall 
remain available until expended by the contractor or grantee.

                       administrative provisions

    For fiscal year 2020, up to $400,000 of the payments authorized by 
chapter 69 of title 31, United States Code, may be retained for 
administrative expenses of the Payments in Lieu of Taxes Program:  
Provided, That the amounts provided under this Act specifically for the 
Payments in Lieu of Taxes program are the only amounts available for 
payments authorized under chapter 69 of title 31, United States Code:  
Provided further, That in the event the sums appropriated for any 
fiscal year for payments pursuant to this chapter are insufficient to 
make the full payments authorized by that chapter to all units of local 
government, then the payment to each local government shall be made 
proportionally:  Provided further, That the Secretary may make 
adjustments to payment to individual units of local government to 
correct for prior overpayments or underpayments:  Provided further, 
That no payment shall be made pursuant to that chapter to otherwise 
eligible units of local government if the computed amount of the 
payment is less than $100.

                            Insular Affairs

                       assistance to territories

    For expenses necessary for assistance to territories under the 
jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior and other jurisdictions 
identified in section 104(e) of Public Law 108-188, $108,631,000, of 
which: (1) $99,140,000 shall remain available until expended for 
territorial assistance, including general technical assistance, 
maintenance assistance, disaster assistance, coral reef initiative and 
natural resources activities, and brown tree snake control and 
research; grants to the judiciary in American Samoa for compensation 
and expenses, as authorized by law (48 U.S.C. 1661(c)); grants to the 
Government of American Samoa, in addition to current local revenues, 
for construction and support of governmental functions; grants to the 
Government of the Virgin Islands, as authorized by law; grants to the 
Government of Guam, as authorized by law; and grants to the Government 
of the Northern Mariana Islands, as authorized by law (Public Law 94-
241; 90 Stat. 272); and (2) $9,491,000 shall be available until 
September 30, 2021, for salaries and expenses of the Office of Insular 
Affairs:  Provided, That all financial transactions of the territorial 
and local governments herein provided for, including such transactions 
of all agencies or instrumentalities established or used by such 
governments, may be audited by the Government Accountability Office, at 
its discretion, in accordance with chapter 35 of title 31, United 
States Code:  Provided further, That Northern Mariana Islands Covenant 
grant funding shall be provided according to those terms of the 
Agreement of the Special Representatives on Future United States 
Financial Assistance for the Northern Mariana Islands approved by 
Public Law 104-134:  Provided further, That the funds for the program 
of operations and maintenance improvement are appropriated to 
institutionalize routine operations and maintenance improvement of 
capital infrastructure with territorial participation and cost sharing 
to be determined by the Secretary based on the grantee's commitment to 
timely maintenance of its capital assets:  Provided further, That any 
appropriation for disaster assistance under this heading in this Act or 
previous appropriations Acts may be used as non-Federal matching funds 
for the purpose of hazard mitigation grants provided pursuant to 
section 404 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c).

                      compact of free association

    For grants and necessary expenses, $3,236,000, to remain available 
until expended, as provided for in sections 221(a)(2) and 233 of the 
Compact of Free Association for the Republic of Palau; and section 
221(a)(2) of the Compacts of Free Association for the Government of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of 
Micronesia, as authorized by Public Law 99-658 and Public Law 108-188.

                       Administrative Provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    At the request of the Governor of Guam, the Secretary may transfer 
discretionary funds or mandatory funds provided under section 104(e) of 
Public Law 108-188 and Public Law 104-134, that are allocated for Guam, 
to the Secretary of Agriculture for the subsidy cost of direct or 
guaranteed loans, plus not to exceed three percent of the amount of the 
subsidy transferred for the cost of loan administration, for the 
purposes authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 and 
section 306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act 
for construction and repair projects in Guam, and such funds shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That such costs, including 
the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That such 
loans or loan guarantees may be made without regard to the population 
of the area, credit elsewhere requirements, and restrictions on the 
types of eligible entities under the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 
and section 306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act:  Provided further, That any funds transferred to the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall be in addition to funds otherwise made available to 
make or guarantee loans under such authorities.

                        Office of the Solicitor

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Solicitor, $66,816,000.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$55,986,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021.

           Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians

                         federal trust programs

              (including transfer and rescission of funds)

    For the operation of trust programs for Indians by direct 
expenditure, contracts, cooperative agreements, compacts, and grants, 
$97,613,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to exceed 
$17,911,000 from this or any other Act, may be available for historical 
accounting:  Provided, That $10,000,000 shall not be available for 
obligation until the Secretary provides the report required by section 
304(a)(3) of the Indian Trust Asset Reform Act (Public Law 114-178) to 
terminate the Office of the Special Trustee in its entirety, to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate:  Provided further, That funds for Trust Management improvements 
and litigation support may, as needed, be transferred to or merged with 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs ``Operation of Indian Programs'' and 
Bureau of Indian Education, ``Operation of Indian Education Programs'' 
account; the Office of the Solicitor, ``Salaries and Expenses'' 
account; and the Office of the Secretary, ``Departmental Operations'' 
account:  Provided further, That funds made available through contracts 
or grants obligated during fiscal year 2020, as authorized by the 
Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), shall 
remain available until expended by the contractor or grantee:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
shall not be required to provide a quarterly statement of performance 
for any Indian trust account that has not had activity for at least 15 
months and has a balance of $15 or less:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall issue an annual account statement and maintain a record 
of any such accounts and shall permit the balance in each such account 
to be withdrawn upon the express written request of the account holder: 
 Provided further, That not to exceed $50,000 is available for the 
Secretary to make payments to correct administrative errors of either 
disbursements from or deposits to Individual Indian Money or Tribal 
accounts after September 30, 2002:  Provided further, That erroneous 
payments that are recovered shall be credited to and remain available 
in this account for this purpose:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall not be required to reconcile Special Deposit Accounts with a 
balance of less than $500 unless the Office of the Special Trustee 
receives proof of ownership from a Special Deposit Accounts claimant:  
Provided further, That notwithstanding section 102 of the American 
Indian Trust Fund Management Reform Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-412) or 
any other provision of law, the Secretary may aggregate the trust 
accounts of individuals whose whereabouts are unknown for a continuous 
period of at least five years and shall not be required to generate 
periodic statements of performance for the individual accounts:  
Provided further, That with respect to the ninth proviso, the Secretary 
shall continue to maintain sufficient records to determine the balance 
of the individual accounts, including any accrued interest and income, 
and such funds shall remain available to the individual account 
holders.
    Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available for the 
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, $3,000,000 is 
permanently rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from 
amounts that were designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Department-Wide Programs

                        wildland fire management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for fire preparedness, fire suppression 
operations, fire science and research, emergency rehabilitation, fuels 
management activities, and rural fire assistance by the Department of 
the Interior, $952,338,000 (increased by $1,000,000) (increased by 
$2,000,000), to remain available until expended, of which not to exceed 
$18,427,000 shall be for the renovation or construction of fire 
facilities:  Provided, That such funds are also available for repayment 
of advances to other appropriation accounts from which funds were 
previously transferred for such purposes:  Provided further, That of 
the funds provided $194,000,000 is for fuels management activities:  
Provided further, That of the funds provided $20,470,000 (reduced by 
$1) (increased by $1) is for burned area rehabilitation:  Provided 
further, That persons hired pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 1469 may be furnished 
subsistence and lodging without cost from funds available from this 
appropriation:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 1856d, 
sums received by a bureau or office of the Department of the Interior 
for fire protection rendered pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 1856 et seq., 
protection of United States property, may be credited to the 
appropriation from which funds were expended to provide that 
protection, and are available without fiscal year limitation:  Provided 
further, That using the amounts designated under this title of this 
Act, the Secretary of the Interior may enter into procurement 
contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements, for fuels management 
activities, and for training and monitoring associated with such fuels 
management activities on Federal land, or on adjacent non-Federal land 
for activities that benefit resources on Federal land:  Provided 
further, That the costs of implementing any cooperative agreement 
between the Federal Government and any non-Federal entity may be 
shared, as mutually agreed on by the affected parties:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding requirements of the Competition in 
Contracting Act, the Secretary, for purposes of fuels management 
activities, may obtain maximum practicable competition among: (1) local 
private, nonprofit, or cooperative entities; (2) Youth Conservation 
Corps crews, Public Lands Corps (Public Law 109-154), or related 
partnerships with State, local, or nonprofit youth groups; (3) small or 
micro-businesses; or (4) other entities that will hire or train locally 
a significant percentage, defined as 50 percent or more, of the project 
workforce to complete such contracts:  Provided further, That in 
implementing this section, the Secretary shall develop written guidance 
to field units to ensure accountability and consistent application of 
the authorities provided herein:  Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading may be used to reimburse the United 
States Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries 
Service for the costs of carrying out their responsibilities under the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) to consult and 
conference, as required by section 7 of such Act, in connection with 
wildland fire management activities:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary of the Interior may use wildland fire appropriations to enter 
into leases of real property with local governments, at or below fair 
market value, to construct capitalized improvements for fire facilities 
on such leased properties, including but not limited to fire guard 
stations, retardant stations, and other initial attack and fire support 
facilities, and to make advance payments for any such lease or for 
construction activity associated with the lease:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture may 
authorize the transfer of funds appropriated for wildland fire 
management, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000, between 
the Departments when such transfers would facilitate and expedite 
wildland fire management programs and projects:  Provided further, That 
funds provided for wildfire suppression shall be available for support 
of Federal emergency response actions:  Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for assistance to or 
through the Department of State in connection with forest and rangeland 
research, technical information, and assistance in foreign countries, 
and, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall be available 
to support forestry, wildland fire management, and related natural 
resource activities outside the United States and its territories and 
possessions, including technical assistance, education and training, 
and cooperation with United States and international organizations.  
Provided further, That of the funds provided under this heading, 
$383,657,000 is provided to meet the terms of section 
251(b)(2)(F)(ii)(I) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    In addition to the amounts provided under this heading for wildfire 
suppression operations, $300,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, is additional new budget authority as specified for purposes 
of section 251(b)(2)(F) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended:  Provided, That the Secretary of the 
Interior may transfer such amounts to the Department of Agriculture for 
wildfire suppression operations.

                    central hazardous materials fund

    For necessary expenses of the Department of the Interior and any of 
its component offices and bureaus for the response action, including 
associated activities, performed pursuant to the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 
et seq.), $13,010,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$3,000,000, notwithstanding any other provision of law, shall be for 
analysis and initiation of radium decontamination and remediation at 
any land-grant university that may have been subject to such 
contamination as a result of actions of the former United States Bureau 
of Mines.

           Natural Resource Damage Assessment and Restoration

                natural resource damage assessment fund

    To conduct natural resource damage assessment, restoration 
activities, and onshore oil spill preparedness by the Department of the 
Interior necessary to carry out the provisions of the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 
et seq.), the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et 
seq.), the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.), and 54 
U.S.C. 100721 et seq., $7,767,000, to remain available until expended.

                          working capital fund

    For the operation and maintenance of a departmental financial and 
business management system, information technology improvements of 
general benefit to the Department, cybersecurity, and the consolidation 
of facilities and operations throughout the Department, $69,284,000 
(reduced by $7,000,000), to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated in this Act or any other Act may be 
used to establish reserves in the Working Capital Fund account other 
than for accrued annual leave and depreciation of equipment without 
prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
may assess reasonable charges to State, local and tribal government 
employees for training services provided by the National Indian Program 
Training Center, other than training related to Public Law 93-638:  
Provided further, That the Secretary may lease or otherwise provide 
space and related facilities, equipment or professional services of the 
National Indian Program Training Center to State, local and tribal 
government employees or persons or organizations engaged in cultural, 
educational, or recreational activities (as defined in section 3306(a) 
of title 40, United States Code) at the prevailing rate for similar 
space, facilities, equipment, or services in the vicinity of the 
National Indian Program Training Center:  Provided further, That all 
funds received pursuant to the two preceding provisos shall be credited 
to this account, shall be available until expended, and shall be used 
by the Secretary for necessary expenses of the National Indian Program 
Training Center:  Provided further, That the Secretary may enter into 
grants and cooperative agreements to support the Office of Natural 
Resource Revenue's collection and disbursement of royalties, fees, and 
other mineral revenue proceeds, as authorized by law.

                        administrative provision

    There is hereby authorized for acquisition from available resources 
within the Working Capital Fund, aircraft which may be obtained by 
donation, purchase or through available excess surplus property:  
Provided, That existing aircraft being replaced may be sold, with 
proceeds derived or trade-in value used to offset the purchase price 
for the replacement aircraft.

                  office of natural resources revenue

    For necessary expenses for management of the collection and 
disbursement of royalties, fees, and other mineral revenue proceeds, 
and for grants and cooperative agreements, as authorized by law, 
$147,330,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021; of which 
$50,651,000 shall remain available until expended for the purpose of 
mineral revenue management activities:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, $15,000 shall be available for refunds of 
overpayments in connection with certain Indian leases in which the 
Secretary concurred with the claimed refund due, to pay amounts owed to 
Indian allottees or tribes, or to correct prior unrecoverable erroneous 
payments.

             General Provisions, Department of the Interior

                     (including transfers of funds)

               emergency transfer authority--intra-bureau

    Sec. 101.  Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
expenditure or transfer (within each bureau or office), with the 
approval of the Secretary, for the emergency reconstruction, 
replacement, or repair of aircraft, buildings, utilities, or other 
facilities or equipment damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, storm, or 
other unavoidable causes:  Provided, That no funds shall be made 
available under this authority until funds specifically made available 
to the Department of the Interior for emergencies shall have been 
exhausted:  Provided further, That all funds used pursuant to this 
section must be replenished by a supplemental appropriation, which must 
be requested as promptly as possible.

             emergency transfer authority--department-wide

    Sec. 102.  The Secretary may authorize the expenditure or transfer 
of any no year appropriation in this title, in addition to the amounts 
included in the budget programs of the several agencies, for emergency 
actions related to potential or actual earthquakes, floods, volcanoes, 
storms, or other unavoidable causes; for contingency planning 
subsequent to actual oil spills; for response and natural resource 
damage assessment activities related to actual oil spills or releases 
of hazardous substances into the environment; for the prevention, 
suppression, and control of actual or potential grasshopper and Mormon 
cricket outbreaks on lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary, 
pursuant to the authority in section 417(b) of Public Law 106-224 (7 
U.S.C. 7717(b)); for emergency reclamation projects under section 410 
of Public Law 95-87; and shall transfer, from any no year funds 
available to the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, 
such funds as may be necessary to permit assumption of regulatory 
authority in the event a primacy State is not carrying out the 
regulatory provisions of the Surface Mining Act:  Provided, That 
appropriations made in this title for wildland fire operations shall be 
available for the payment of obligations incurred during the preceding 
fiscal year, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies for 
destruction of vehicles, aircraft, or other equipment in connection 
with their use for wildland fire operations, with such reimbursement to 
be credited to appropriations currently available at the time of 
receipt thereof:  Provided further, That all funds used pursuant to 
this section must be replenished by a supplemental appropriation, which 
must be requested as promptly as possible:  Provided further, That such 
replenishment funds shall be used to reimburse, on a pro rata basis, 
accounts from which emergency funds were transferred.

                        authorized use of funds

    Sec. 103.  Appropriations made to the Department of the Interior in 
this title shall be available for services as authorized by section 
3109 of title 5, United States Code, when authorized by the Secretary, 
in total amount not to exceed $500,000; purchase and replacement of 
motor vehicles, including specially equipped law enforcement vehicles; 
hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; purchase of reprints; payment for telephone service in 
private residences in the field, when authorized under regulations 
approved by the Secretary; and the payment of dues, when authorized by 
the Secretary, for library membership in societies or associations 
which issue publications to members only or at a price to members lower 
than to subscribers who are not members.

            authorized use of funds, indian trust management

    Sec. 104.  Appropriations made in this Act under the headings 
Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education, and Office of 
the Special Trustee for American Indians and any unobligated balances 
from prior appropriations Acts made under the same headings shall be 
available for expenditure or transfer for Indian trust management and 
reform activities. Total funding for historical accounting activities 
shall not exceed amounts specifically designated in this Act for such 
purpose. The Secretary shall notify the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations within 60 days of the expenditure or transfer of any 
funds under this section, including the amount expended or transferred 
and how the funds will be used.

           redistribution of funds, bureau of indian affairs

    Sec. 105.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Interior is authorized to redistribute any Tribal 
Priority Allocation funds, including tribal base funds, to alleviate 
tribal funding inequities by transferring funds to address identified, 
unmet needs, dual enrollment, overlapping service areas or inaccurate 
distribution methodologies. No tribe shall receive a reduction in 
Tribal Priority Allocation funds of more than 10 percent in fiscal year 
2020. Under circumstances of dual enrollment, overlapping service areas 
or inaccurate distribution methodologies, the 10 percent limitation 
does not apply.

                 ellis, governors, and liberty islands

    Sec. 106.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Interior is authorized to acquire lands, waters, or 
interests therein including the use of all or part of any pier, dock, 
or landing within the State of New York and the State of New Jersey, 
for the purpose of operating and maintaining facilities in the support 
of transportation and accommodation of visitors to Ellis, Governors, 
and Liberty Islands, and of other program and administrative 
activities, by donation or with appropriated funds, including franchise 
fees (and other monetary consideration), or by exchange; and the 
Secretary is authorized to negotiate and enter into leases, subleases, 
concession contracts or other agreements for the use of such facilities 
on such terms and conditions as the Secretary may determine reasonable.

                outer continental shelf inspection fees

    Sec. 107. (a) In fiscal year 2020, the Secretary shall collect a 
nonrefundable inspection fee, which shall be deposited in the 
``Offshore Safety and Environmental Enforcement'' account, from the 
designated operator for facilities subject to inspection under 43 
U.S.C. 1348(c).
    (b) Annual fees shall be collected for facilities that are above 
the waterline, excluding drilling rigs, and are in place at the start 
of the fiscal year. Fees for fiscal year 2020 shall be--
            (1) $11,500 for facilities with no wells, but with 
        processing equipment or gathering lines;
            (2) $18,500 for facilities with 1 to 10 wells, with any 
        combination of active or inactive wells; and
            (3) $34,500 for facilities with more than 10 wells, with 
        any combination of active or inactive wells.
    (c) Fees for drilling rigs shall be assessed for all inspections 
completed in fiscal year 2020. Fees for fiscal year 2020 shall be--
            (1) $33,500 per inspection for rigs operating in water 
        depths of 500 feet or more; and
            (2) $18,500 per inspection for rigs operating in water 
        depths of less than 500 feet.
    (d) Fees for inspection of well operations conducted via non-rig 
units as outlined in title 30 CFR 250 subparts D, E, F, and Q shall be 
assessed for all inspections completed in fiscal year 2020. Fees for 
fiscal year 2020 shall be--
            (1) $13,260 per inspection for non-rig units operating in 
        water depths of 2,500 feet or more;
            (2) $11,530 per inspection for non-rig units operating in 
        water depths between 500 and 2,499 feet; and
            (3) $4,470 per inspection for non-rig units operating in 
        water depths of less than 500 feet.
    (e) The Secretary shall bill designated operators under subsection 
(b) quarterly, with payment required within 30 days of billing. The 
Secretary shall bill designated operators under subsections (c) and (d) 
within 30 days of the end of the month in which the inspection 
occurred, with payment required within 30 days of billing.

                         disclosure of waivers

    Sec. 108. (a) Subject to subsection (b), in any case in which the 
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement or the Bureau of Ocean 
Energy Management issues any waiver, departure, deviation, variance, or 
any other alternative compliance authorization from any law, rule, 
regulation, or other directive, the head of such bureau shall post a 
copy of such waiver, departure, deviation, variance, or other 
alternative compliance authorization on such bureau's publically 
available website not more than 3 business days after such issuance.
    (b) The head of each bureau may redact confidential business 
information.

  contracts and agreements for wild horse and burro holding facilities

    Sec. 109.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
Secretary of the Interior may enter into multiyear cooperative 
agreements with nonprofit organizations and other appropriate entities, 
and may enter into multiyear contracts in accordance with the 
provisions of section 3903 of title 41, United States Code (except that 
the 5-year term restriction in subsection (a) shall not apply), for the 
long-term care and maintenance of excess wild free roaming horses and 
burros by such organizations or entities on private land. Such 
cooperative agreements and contracts may not exceed 10 years, subject 
to renewal at the discretion of the Secretary.

                       mass marking of salmonids

    Sec. 110.  The United States Fish and Wildlife Service shall, in 
carrying out its responsibilities to protect threatened and endangered 
species of salmon, implement a system of mass marking of salmonid 
stocks, intended for harvest, that are released from federally operated 
or federally financed hatcheries including but not limited to fish 
releases of coho, chinook, and steelhead species. Marked fish must have 
a visible mark that can be readily identified by commercial and 
recreational fishers.

              contracts and agreements with indian affairs

    Sec. 111.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during 
fiscal year 2020, in carrying out work involving cooperation with 
State, local, and tribal governments or any political subdivision 
thereof, Indian Affairs may record obligations against accounts 
receivable from any such entities, except that total obligations at the 
end of the fiscal year shall not exceed total budgetary resources 
available at the end of the fiscal year.

                   humane transfer of excess animals

    Sec. 112.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Interior may transfer excess wild horses or burros 
that have been removed from the public lands to other Federal, State, 
and local government agencies for use as work animals:  Provided, That 
the Secretary may make any such transfer immediately upon request of 
such Federal, State, or local government agency:  Provided further, 
That any excess animal transferred under this provision shall lose its 
status as a wild free-roaming horse or burro as defined in the Wild 
Free-Roaming Horses and Burros Act:  Provided further, That any 
Federal, State, or local government agency receiving excess wild horses 
or burros as authorized in this section shall not: destroy the horses 
or burros in a way that results in their destruction into commercial 
products; sell or otherwise transfer the horses or burros in a way that 
results in their destruction for processing into commercial products; 
or euthanize the horses or burros except upon the recommendation of a 
licensed veterinarian, in cases of severe injury, illness, or advanced 
age.

        department of the interior experienced services program

    Sec. 113. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law relating 
to Federal grants and cooperative agreements, the Secretary of the 
Interior is authorized to make grants to, or enter into cooperative 
agreements with, private nonprofit organizations designated by the 
Secretary of Labor under title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 to 
utilize the talents of older Americans in programs authorized by other 
provisions of law administered by the Secretary and consistent with 
such provisions of law.
    (b) Prior to awarding any grant or agreement under subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall ensure that the agreement would not--
            (1) result in the displacement of individuals currently 
        employed by the Department, including partial displacement 
        through reduction of non-overtime hours, wages, or employment 
        benefits;
            (2) result in the use of an individual under the Department 
        of the Interior Experienced Services Program for a job or 
        function in a case in which a Federal employee is in a layoff 
        status from the same or substantially equivalent job within the 
        Department; or
            (3) affect existing contracts for services.

                    payments in lieu of taxes (pilt)

    Sec. 114.  Section 6906 of title 31, United States Code, is amended 
by striking ``fiscal year 2019'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2020''.

                    republic of the marshall islands

    Sec. 115.  As authorized in section 111(d) of the Compact of Free 
Association Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-239; 99 Stat. 1799; 48 U.S.C. 
1911) and section 108(b) of the Compact of Free Association Amendments 
Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-188; 117 Stat. 2755; 48 U.S.C. 1921g), 
$5,000,000 is hereby appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior, to 
remain available until expended by the Secretary, for the Republic of 
the Marshall Islands to deposit in the Compact Trust Fund of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands as compensation for adverse financial 
and economic impacts resulting from the effect of title IV of the 
Compact of Free Association Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-239; 99 Stat. 
1799; 48 U.S.C. 1911) upon title II of the Compact.

                          obligation of funds

    Sec. 116.  Amounts appropriated by this Act to the Department of 
the Interior shall be available for obligation and expenditure not 
later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

                      restriction on use of funds

    Sec. 117.  Before the final 2019-2024 Outer Continental Shelf Oil 
and Gas Leasing Program, or any plan that is dated later than 2017-
2022, is published in the Federal Register, none of the funds made 
available to the Department of Interior by this or any other Act may be 
used to conduct offshore oil and gas pre-leasing, leasing and related 
activities for any lease sale proposed in the Draft Proposed Program 
described in the ``Notice of Availability of the 2019-2024 Draft 
Proposed Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program and Notice 
of Intent to Prepare a Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement'' 
published in the Federal Register on January 8, 2018 (83 Fed. Reg. 
829), unless such sale was also contained in the 2017-2022 Outer 
Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Proposed Final Program described in the 
``Notice of Availability of the 2017-2022 Outer Continental Shelf Oil 
and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program'' published in the Federal 
Register on November 23, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 84612).

                          funding restriction

    Sec. 118.  None of the funds made available to the Department of 
the Interior by this or any other Act may be used to conduct a lease 
sale pursuant to section 20001(c)(1) of Public Law 115-97 which does 
not contain a national minimum acceptable bid amount sufficient to 
produce Federal receipts to the Treasury, net of any state share, of no 
less than 50 percent of the amount required by section 2001(b) of H. 
Con. Res. 71, the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 
2018, as agreed to on October 26, 2017.

                        extension of authorities

    Sec. 119. (a) Section 512 of title V of division J of Public Law 
108-447 is amended by striking ``on the date that is 15 years after the 
date that funds are first made available for this title.'' and 
inserting ``after September 30, 2022.''.
    (b) Section 608 of title VI of division J of Public Law 108-447 is 
amended by striking ``the expiration of the 15-year period beginning on 
the date that funds are first made available for this title.'' and 
inserting ``September 30, 2022.''.
    (c) Section 109 of title I of Public Law 103-449, as amended by 
Public Law 111-11, title VIII section 8201(c), is further amended by 
striking ``$15,000,000'' and inserting ``$17,000,000''.
    (d) Section 608(a) of division II of Public Law 104-333, as amended 
by Public Law 110-229 section 461, is further amended by striking 
``$15,000,000'' and inserting ``$17,000,000''.
    (e) Section 810(a)(1) of title VIII of division B of appendix D of 
Public Law 106-554, as amended by Public Law 115-31, division G, title 
I section 115(b), is further amended by striking ``$12,000,000'' and 
inserting ``$14,000,000''.

                         separation of accounts

    Sec. 120.  The Secretary of the Interior, in order to implement an 
orderly transition to separate accounts of the Bureau of Indian Affairs 
and the Bureau of Indian Education, may transfer funds among and 
between the successor offices and bureaus affected by the 
reorganization only in conformance with the reprogramming guidelines 
described in this Act.

                                TITLE II

                    ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

                         Science and Technology

    For science and technology, including research and development 
activities, which shall include research and development activities 
under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980; necessary expenses for personnel and related 
costs and travel expenses; procurement of laboratory equipment and 
supplies; and other operating expenses in support of research and 
development, $727,633,000 (reduced by $8,000,000) (increased by 
$8,000,000), to remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, 
That of the funds included under this heading, $6,000,000 shall be for 
Research: National Priorities as specified in the report accompanying 
this Act.

                 Environmental Programs and Management

    For environmental programs and management, including necessary 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for personnel and related costs 
and travel expenses; hire of passenger motor vehicles; hire, 
maintenance, and operation of aircraft; purchase of reprints; library 
memberships in societies or associations which issue publications to 
members only or at a price to members lower than to subscribers who are 
not members; administrative costs of the brownfields program under the 
Small Business Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization Act of 
2002; implementation of a coal combustion residual permit program under 
section 2301 of the Water and Waste Act of 2016; and not to exceed 
$9,000 for official reception and representation expenses, 
$2,707,704,000 (reduced by $2,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000) 
(reduced by $3,000,000) (increased by $3,000,000) (increased by 
$500,000) (reduced by $500,000) (increased by $25,000) (reduced by 
$25,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000) (reduced by 
$500,000) (increased by $500,000) (increased by $1,000,000), to remain 
available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That of the funds 
included under this heading, $17,700,000 shall be for Environmental 
Protection: National Priorities as specified in the report accompanying 
this Act.  Provided further, That of the funds included under this 
heading, $501,958,000 (reduced by $1) (increased by $1) shall be for 
Geographic Programs specified in the report accompanying this Act.
    In addition, $5,000,000 to remain available until expended, for 
necessary expenses of activities described in section 26(b)(1) of the 
Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2625(b)(1)):  Provided, That 
fees collected pursuant to that section of that Act and deposited in 
the ``TSCA Service Fee Fund'' as discretionary offsetting receipts in 
fiscal year 2020 shall be retained and used for necessary salaries and 
expenses in this appropriation and shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated in this 
paragraph from the general fund for fiscal year 2020 shall be reduced 
by the amount of discretionary offsetting receipts received during 
fiscal year 2020, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2020 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more than $0:  
Provided further, That to the extent that amounts realized from such 
receipts exceed $5,000,000, those amount in excess of $5,000,000 shall 
be deposited in the ``TSCA Service Fee Fund'' as discretionary 
offsetting receipts in fiscal year 2020, shall be retained and used for 
necessary salaries and expenses in this account, and shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That of the funds included 
in the first paragraph under this heading, the Chemical Risk Review and 
Reduction program project shall be allocated for this fiscal year, 
excluding the amount of any fees appropriated, not less than the amount 
of appropriations for that program project for fiscal year 2014.

            Hazardous Waste Electronic Manifest System Fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 3024 of the Solid Waste 
Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6939g), including the development, operation, 
maintenance, and upgrading of the hazardous waste electronic manifest 
system established by such section, $8,000,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That the sum herein appropriated from the 
general fund shall be reduced as offsetting collections under such 
section 3024 are received during fiscal year 2020, which shall remain 
available until expended and be used for necessary expenses in this 
appropriation, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2020 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more than $0:  
Provided further, That to the extent such offsetting collections 
received in fiscal year 2020 exceed $8,000,000, those excess amounts 
shall remain available until expended and be used for necessary 
expenses in this appropriation.

                      Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$48,514,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021.

                        Buildings and Facilities

    For construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, and 
purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of, or for use by, the 
Environmental Protection Agency, $39,553,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                     Hazardous Substance Superfund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), including 
sections 111(c)(3), (c)(5), (c)(6), and (e)(4) (42 U.S.C. 9611), and 
hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft, $1,214,648,000, to remain 
available until expended, consisting of such sums as are available in 
the Trust Fund on September 30, 2019, as authorized by section 517(a) 
of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA) and 
up to $1,214,648,000 (reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) 
as a payment from general revenues to the Hazardous Substance Superfund 
for purposes as authorized by section 517(b) of SARA:  Provided, That 
funds appropriated under this heading may be allocated to other Federal 
agencies in accordance with section 111(a) of CERCLA:  Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, $9,586,000 
shall be paid to the ``Office of Inspector General'' appropriation to 
remain available until September 30, 2021, and $30,496,000 shall be 
paid to the ``Science and Technology'' appropriation to remain 
available until September 30, 2021.

          Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program

    For necessary expenses to carry out leaking underground storage 
tank cleanup activities authorized by subtitle I of the Solid Waste 
Disposal Act, $94,410,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$69,041,000 shall be for carrying out leaking underground storage tank 
cleanup activities authorized by section 9003(h) of the Solid Waste 
Disposal Act; $25,369,000 shall be for carrying out the other 
provisions of the Solid Waste Disposal Act specified in section 9508(c) 
of the Internal Revenue Code:  Provided, That the Administrator is 
authorized to use appropriations made available under this heading to 
implement section 9013 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act to provide 
financial assistance to federally recognized Indian tribes for the 
development and implementation of programs to manage underground 
storage tanks.

                       Inland Oil Spill Programs

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Environmental Protection 
Agency's responsibilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 
including hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft, $23,237,000, to 
be derived from the Oil Spill Liability trust fund, to remain available 
until expended.

                   State and Tribal Assistance Grants

    For environmental programs and infrastructure assistance, including 
capitalization grants for State revolving funds and performance 
partnership grants, $4,620,992,000 (increased by $5,000,000) (reduced 
by $5,000,000), to remain available until expended, of which--
            (1) $1,784,000,000 shall be for making capitalization 
        grants for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds under title VI 
        of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act; and of which 
        $1,300,000,000 shall be for making capitalization grants for 
        the Drinking Water State Revolving Funds under section 1452 of 
        the Safe Drinking Water Act:  Provided, That for fiscal year 
        2020, to the extent there are sufficient eligible project 
        applications and projects are consistent with State Intended 
        Use Plans, not less than 10 percent of the funds made available 
        under this title to each State for Clean Water State Revolving 
        Fund capitalization grants shall be used by the State for 
        projects to address green infrastructure, water or energy 
        efficiency improvements, or other environmentally innovative 
        activities:  Provided further, That for fiscal year 2020, funds 
        made available under this title to each State for Drinking 
        Water State Revolving Fund capitalization grants may, at the 
        discretion of each State, be used for projects to address green 
        infrastructure, water or energy efficiency improvements, or 
        other environmentally innovative activities:  Provided further, 
        That notwithstanding section 603(d)(7) of the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act, the limitation on the amounts in a State 
        water pollution control revolving fund that may be used by a 
        State to administer the fund shall not apply to amounts 
        included as principal in loans made by such fund in fiscal year 
        2020 and prior years where such amounts represent costs of 
        administering the fund to the extent that such amounts are or 
        were deemed reasonable by the Administrator, accounted for 
        separately from other assets in the fund, and used for eligible 
        purposes of the fund, including administration:  Provided 
        further, That for fiscal year 2020, notwithstanding the 
        provisions of subsections (g)(1), (h), and (l) of section 201 
        of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, grants made under 
        title II of such Act for American Samoa, Guam, the commonwealth 
        of the Northern Marianas, the United States Virgin Islands, and 
        the District of Columbia may also be made for the purpose of 
        providing assistance: (1) solely for facility plans, design 
        activities, or plans, specifications, and estimates for any 
        proposed project for the construction of treatment works; and 
        (2) for the construction, repair, or replacement of privately 
        owned treatment works serving one or more principal residences 
        or small commercial establishments:  Provided further, That for 
        fiscal year 2020, notwithstanding the provisions of such 
        subsections (g)(1), (h), and (l) of section 201 and section 
        518(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, funds 
        reserved by the Administrator for grants under section 518(c) 
        of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act may also be used to 
        provide assistance: (1) solely for facility plans, design 
        activities, or plans, specifications, and estimates for any 
        proposed project for the construction of treatment works; and 
        (2) for the construction, repair, or replacement of privately 
        owned treatment works serving one or more principal residences 
        or small commercial establishments:  Provided further, That for 
        fiscal year 2020, notwithstanding any provision of the Federal 
        Water Pollution Control Act and regulations issued pursuant 
        thereof, up to a total of $2,000,000 of the funds reserved by 
        the Administrator for grants under section 518(c) of such Act 
        may also be used for grants for training, technical assistance, 
        and educational programs relating to the operation and 
        management of the treatment works specified in section 518(c) 
        of such Act:  Provided further, That for fiscal year 2020, 
        funds reserved under section 518(c) of such Act shall be 
        available for grants only to Indian tribes, as defined in 
        section 518(h) of such Act and former Indian reservations in 
        Oklahoma (as determined by the Secretary of the Interior) and 
        Native Villages as defined in Public Law 92-203:  Provided 
        further, That for fiscal year 2020, notwithstanding the 
        limitation on amounts in section 518(c) of the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act, up to a total of 2 percent of the funds 
        appropriated, or $30,000,000, whichever is greater, and 
        notwithstanding the limitation on amounts in section 1452(i) of 
        the Safe Drinking Water Act, up to a total of 2 percent of the 
        funds appropriated, or $20,000,000, whichever is greater, for 
        State Revolving Funds under such Acts may be reserved by the 
        Administrator for grants under section 518(c) and section 
        1452(i) of such Acts:  Provided further, That for fiscal year 
        2020, notwithstanding the amounts specified in section 205(c) 
        of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, up to 1.5 percent 
        of the aggregate funds appropriated for the Clean Water State 
        Revolving Fund program under the Act less any sums reserved 
        under section 518(c) of the Act, may be reserved by the 
        Administrator for grants made under title II of the Federal 
        Water Pollution Control Act for American Samoa, Guam, the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, and United States Virgin 
        Islands:  Provided further, That for fiscal year 2020, 
        notwithstanding the limitations on amounts specified in section 
        1452(j) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, up to 1.5 percent of 
        the funds appropriated for the Drinking Water State Revolving 
        Fund programs under the Safe Drinking Water Act may be reserved 
        by the Administrator for grants made under section 1452(j) of 
        the Safe Drinking Water Act:  Provided further, That 10 percent 
        of the funds made available under this title to each State for 
        Clean Water State Revolving Fund capitalization grants and 14 
        percent of the funds made available under this title to each 
        State for Drinking Water State Revolving Fund capitalization 
        grants shall be used by the State to provide additional subsidy 
        to eligible recipients in the form of forgiveness of principal, 
        negative interest loans, or grants (or any combination of 
        these), and shall be so used by the State only where such funds 
        are provided as initial financing for an eligible recipient or 
        to buy, refinance, or restructure the debt obligations of 
        eligible recipients only where such debt was incurred on or 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, or where such debt was 
        incurred prior to the date of enactment of this Act if the 
        State, with concurrence from the Administrator, determines that 
        such funds could be used to help address a threat to public 
        health from heightened exposure to lead in drinking water or if 
        a Federal or State emergency declaration has been issued due to 
        a threat to public health from heightened exposure to lead in a 
        municipal drinking water supply before the date of enactment of 
        this Act:  Provided further, That in a State in which such an 
        emergency declaration has been issued, the State may use more 
        than 14 percent of the funds made available under this title to 
        the State for Drinking Water State Revolving Fund 
        capitalization grants to provide additional subsidy to eligible 
        recipients;
            (2) $30,000,000 (increased by $10,000,000) (reduced by 
        $10,000,000) shall be for architectural, engineering, planning, 
        design, construction and related activities in connection with 
        the construction of high priority water and wastewater 
        facilities in the area of the United States-Mexico Border, 
        after consultation with the appropriate border commission:  
        Provided, That no funds provided by this appropriations Act to 
        address the water, wastewater and other critical infrastructure 
        needs of the colonias in the United States along the United 
        States-Mexico border shall be made available to a county or 
        municipal government unless that government has established an 
        enforceable local ordinance, or other zoning rule, which 
        prevents in that jurisdiction the development or construction 
        of any additional colonia areas, or the development within an 
        existing colonia the construction of any new home, business, or 
        other structure which lacks water, wastewater, or other 
        necessary infrastructure;
            (3) $20,000,000 shall be for grants to the State of Alaska 
        to address drinking water and wastewater infrastructure needs 
        of rural and Alaska Native Villages:  Provided, That of these 
        funds: (A) the State of Alaska shall provide a match of 25 
        percent; (B) no more than 5 percent of the funds may be used 
        for administrative and overhead expenses; and (C) the State of 
        Alaska shall make awards consistent with the Statewide priority 
        list established in conjunction with the Agency and the United 
        States Department of Agriculture for all water, sewer, waste 
        disposal, and similar projects carried out by the State of 
        Alaska that are funded under section 221 of the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1301) or the Consolidated Farm 
        and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.) which shall 
        allocate not less than 25 percent of the funds provided for 
        projects in regional hub communities;
            (4) $105,000,000 shall be to carry out section 104(k) of 
        the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
        Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), including grants, interagency 
        agreements, and associated program support costs:  Provided, 
        That not more than 25 percent of the amount appropriated to 
        carry out section 104(k) of CERCLA shall be used for site 
        characterization, assessment, and remediation of facilities 
        described in section 101(39)(D)(ii)(II) of CERCLA:  Provided 
        further, That at least 10 percent shall be allocated for 
        assistance in persistent poverty counties:  Provided further, 
        That for purposes of this section, the term ``persistent 
        poverty counties'' means any county that has had 20 percent or 
        more of its population living in poverty over the past 30 
        years, as measured by the 1990 and 2000 decennial censuses and 
        the most recent Small Area Income and Poverty Estimates, or any 
        territory or possession of the United States;
            (5) $55,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by 
        $5,000,000) shall be for grants under title VII, subtitle G of 
        the Energy Policy Act of 2005;
            (6) $30,000,000 shall be for targeted airshed grants in 
        accordance with the terms and conditions in the report 
        accompanying this Act;
            (7) $4,000,000 shall be to carry out the water quality 
        program authorized in section 5004(d) of the Water 
        Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (Public Law 114-
        322);
            (8) $25,000,000 shall be for grants and other activities 
        under subsections (a) through (j) of section 1459A of the Safe 
        Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-19a));
            (9) $25,000,000 shall be for grants and other activities 
        under section 1464(d) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 
        300j-24(d));
            (10) $20,000,000 (reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by 
        $5,000,000) shall be for grants under section 1459B of the Safe 
        Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-19b));
            (11) $4,000,000 shall be for grants under section 1459A(l) 
        of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-19a(l));
            (12) $13,000,000 shall be for grants under section 
        104(b)(8) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 
        1254(b)(8));
            (13) $90,000,000 (reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by 
        $10,000,000) shall be for grants under section 221 of the 
        Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1301);
            (14) $1,000,000 shall be for grants under section 4304(b) 
        of America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-
        270); and
            (15) $1,114,992,000 (increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by 
        $1,000,000) shall be for grants, including associated program 
        support costs, to States, federally recognized tribes, 
        interstate agencies, tribal consortia, and air pollution 
        control agencies for multi-media or single media pollution 
        prevention, control and abatement and related activities, 
        including activities pursuant to the provisions set forth under 
        this heading in Public Law 104-134, and for making grants under 
        section 103 of the Clean Air Act for particulate matter 
        monitoring and data collection activities subject to terms and 
        conditions specified by the Administrator, of which: 
        $47,745,000 shall be for carrying out section 128 of CERCLA; 
        $9,646,000 shall be for Environmental Information Exchange 
        Network grants, including associated program support costs; 
        $1,498,000 shall be for grants to States under section 
        2007(f)(2) of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, which shall be in 
        addition to funds appropriated under the heading ``Leaking 
        Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program'' to carry out the 
        provisions of the Solid Waste Disposal Act specified in section 
        9508(c) of the Internal Revenue Code other than section 9003(h) 
        of the Solid Waste Disposal Act; $17,848,000 of the funds 
        available for grants under section 106 of the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act shall be for State participation in 
        national- and State-level statistical surveys of water 
        resources and enhancements to State monitoring programs.

      Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Program Account

    For the cost of direct loans and for the cost of guaranteed loans, 
as authorized by the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 
2014, $45,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans, including 
capitalized interest, and total loan principal, including capitalized 
interest, any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed 
$5,490,000,000.
    In addition, fees authorized to be collected pursuant to sections 
5029 and 5030 of the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 
2014 shall be deposited in this account, to remain available until 
expended.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
and guaranteed loan programs, notwithstanding section 5033 of the Water 
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014, $5,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021.

       Administrative Provisions--Environmental Protection Agency

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For fiscal year 2020, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 6303(1) and 
6305(1), the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, in 
carrying out the Agency's function to implement directly Federal 
environmental programs required or authorized by law in the absence of 
an acceptable tribal program, may award cooperative agreements to 
federally recognized Indian tribes or Intertribal consortia, if 
authorized by their member tribes, to assist the Administrator in 
implementing Federal environmental programs for Indian tribes required 
or authorized by law, except that no such cooperative agreements may be 
awarded from funds designated for State financial assistance 
agreements.
    The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency is 
authorized to collect and obligate pesticide registration service fees 
in accordance with section 33 of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, 
and Rodenticide Act, as amended by Public Law 116-8, the Pesticide 
Registration Improvement Extension Act of 2018.
    Notwithstanding section 33(d)(2) of the Federal Insecticide, 
Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) (7 U.S.C. 136w-8(d)(2)), the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency may assess fees 
under section 33 of FIFRA (7 U.S.C. 136w-8) for fiscal year 2020.
    The Administrator is authorized to transfer up to $320,000,000 of 
the funds appropriated for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative under 
the heading ``Environmental Programs and Management'' to the head of 
any Federal department or agency, with the concurrence of such head, to 
carry out activities that would support the Great Lakes Restoration 
Initiative and Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement programs, projects, 
or activities; to enter into an interagency agreement with the head of 
such Federal department or agency to carry out these activities; and to 
make grants to governmental entities, nonprofit organizations, 
institutions, and individuals for planning, research, monitoring, 
outreach, and implementation in furtherance of the Great Lakes 
Restoration Initiative and the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement.
    The Science and Technology, Environmental Programs and Management, 
Office of Inspector General, Hazardous Substance Superfund, and Leaking 
Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program Accounts, are available for 
the construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and renovation of 
facilities, provided that the cost does not exceed $150,000 per 
project.
    For fiscal year 2020, and notwithstanding section 518(f) of the 
Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1377(f)), the 
Administrator is authorized to use the amounts appropriated for any 
fiscal year under section 319 of the Act to make grants to Indian 
tribes pursuant to sections 319(h) and 518(e) of that Act.
    The Administrator is authorized to use the amounts appropriated 
under the heading ``Environmental Programs and Management'' for fiscal 
year 2020 to provide grants to implement the Southeastern New England 
Watershed Restoration Program.
    Notwithstanding the limitations on amounts in section 320(i)(2)(B) 
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, not less than $4,000,000 of 
the funds made available under this title for the National Estuary 
Program shall be for making competitive awards described in section 
320(g)(4).
    The fourth paragraph under heading ``Administrative Provisions'' in 
title II of Public Law 109-54 is amended by striking ``2020'' and 
inserting ``2025''.

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                       DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

  office of the under secretary for natural resources and environment

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Natural Resources and Environment, $875,000:  Provided, That funds made 
available by this Act to any agency in the Natural Resources and 
Environment mission area for salaries and expenses are available to 
fund up to one administrative support staff for the office.

                             Forest Service

                       forest service operations

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
provided for, $921,849,000 to remain available through September 30, 
2021, for: (1) the base salary and expenses of permanent employees 
carrying out administrative and general management support functions of 
the Forest Service; (2) the costs of leases for buildings and sites 
where such support functions take place; (3) the costs of utility and 
telecommunication expenses, business services, and information 
technology, including cybersecurity requirements; and (4) such other 
administrative support function expenses necessary for the operation of 
the Forest Service:  Provided, That not to exceed $565,713,000 shall be 
available for the base salaries and expenses described in paragraph 
(1):  Provided further, That any unobligated balances available to the 
Forest Service from prior fiscal years for the purposes described under 
this heading shall be transferred to and merged with this account:  
Provided further, That any funding for the purposes described under 
this heading that are authorized to be paid by permanent funds or trust 
funds of the Forest Service shall be transferred to and merged with 
this account:  Provided further, That none of the funds provided to the 
Forest Service under this Act (other than under this heading) may be 
used to fund indirect expenses that before the date of the enactment of 
this Act were provided for through discretionary cost pools.

                     forest and rangeland research

    For necessary expenses of forest and rangeland research as 
authorized by law, $277,155,000, to remain available through September 
30, 2023:  Provided, That of the funds provided, $73,174,000 is for the 
forest inventory and analysis program:  Provided further, That all 
authorities for the use of funds, including the use of contracts, 
grants, and cooperative agreements, available to execute the Forest and 
Rangeland Research appropriation, are also available in the utilization 
of these funds for Fire Science Research.

                       state and private forestry

    For necessary expenses of cooperating with and providing technical 
and financial assistance to States, territories, possessions, and 
others, and for forest health management, and conducting an 
international program as authorized, $382,894,000 (increased by 
$2,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000), to remain available through 
September 30, 2023, as authorized by law; of which $75,000,000 is to be 
derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund to be used for the 
Forest Legacy Program, to remain available until expended.

                         national forest system

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
provided for, for management, protection, improvement, and utilization 
of the National Forest System, and for hazardous fuels management on or 
adjacent to such lands, $1,599,308,000 (reduced by $10,000,000) 
(increased by $10,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by 
$1,000,000) (increased by $3,000,000), to remain available through 
September 30, 2023:  Provided, That of the funds provided, $35,526,000 
(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) shall be deposited in 
the Collaborative Forest Landscape Restoration Fund for ecological 
restoration treatments as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 7303(f):  Provided 
further, That of the funds provided, $276,603,000 shall be for forest 
products:  Provided further, That of the funds provided, $390,169,000 
(increased by $3,000,000) shall be for hazardous fuels management 
activities, of which not to exceed $15,000,000 may be used to make 
grants, using any authorities available to the Forest Service under the 
``State and Private Forestry'' appropriation, for the purpose of 
creating incentives for increased use of biomass from National Forest 
System lands:  Provided further, That $20,000,000 may be used by the 
Secretary of Agriculture to enter into procurement contracts or 
cooperative agreements or to issue grants for hazardous fuels 
management activities, and for training or monitoring associated with 
such hazardous fuels management activities on Federal land, or on non-
Federal land if the Secretary determines such activities benefit 
resources on Federal land:  Provided further, That funds made available 
to implement the Community Forestry Restoration Act, Public Law 106-
393, title VI, shall be available for use on non-Federal lands in 
accordance with authorities made available to the Forest Service under 
the ``State and Private Forestry'' appropriations:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding section 33 of the Bankhead Jones Farm Tenant Act 
(7 U.S.C. 1012), the Secretary of Agriculture, in calculating a fee for 
grazing on a National Grassland, may provide a credit of up to 50 
percent of the calculated fee to a Grazing Association or direct 
permittee for a conservation practice approved by the Secretary in 
advance of the fiscal year in which the cost of the conservation 
practice is incurred. And, that the amount credited shall remain 
available to the Grazing Association or the direct permittee, as 
appropriate, in the fiscal year in which the credit is made and each 
fiscal year thereafter for use on the project for conservation 
practices approved by the Secretary.

                  capital improvement and maintenance

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
provided for, $419,103,000 (reduced by $1) (increased by $1), to remain 
available through September 30, 2023, for construction, capital 
improvement, maintenance and acquisition of buildings and other 
facilities and infrastructure; and for construction, reconstruction, 
decommissioning of roads that are no longer needed, including 
unauthorized roads that are not part of the transportation system, and 
maintenance of forest roads and trails by the Forest Service as 
authorized by 16 U.S.C. 532-538 and 23 U.S.C. 101 and 205:  Provided, 
That funds becoming available in fiscal year 2020 under the Act of 
March 4, 1913 (16 U.S.C. 501) shall be transferred to the General Fund 
of the Treasury and shall not be available for transfer or obligation 
for any other purpose unless the funds are appropriated.

                            land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of chapter 2003 
of title 54, United States Code, including administrative expenses, and 
for acquisition of land or waters, or interest therein, in accordance 
with statutory authority applicable to the Forest Service, $90,000,000, 
to be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund and to remain 
available until expended.

         acquisition of lands for national forests special acts

    For acquisition of lands within the exterior boundaries of the 
Cache, Uinta, and Wasatch National Forests, Utah; the Toiyabe National 
Forest, Nevada; and the Angeles, San Bernardino, Sequoia, and Cleveland 
National Forests, California; and the Ozark-St. Francis and Ouachita 
National Forests, Arkansas; as authorized by law, $700,000, to be 
derived from forest receipts.

            acquisition of lands to complete land exchanges

    For acquisition of lands, such sums, to be derived from funds 
deposited by State, county, or municipal governments, public school 
districts, or other public school authorities, and for authorized 
expenditures from funds deposited by non-Federal parties pursuant to 
Land Sale and Exchange Acts, pursuant to the Act of December 4, 1967 
(16 U.S.C. 484a), to remain available through September 30, 2022, (16 
U.S.C. 516-617a, 555a; Public Law 96-586; Public Law 76-589, 76-591; 
and Public Law 78-310).

                         range betterment fund

    For necessary expenses of range rehabilitation, protection, and 
improvement, 50 percent of all moneys received during the prior fiscal 
year, as fees for grazing domestic livestock on lands in National 
Forests in the 16 Western States, pursuant to section 401(b)(1) of 
Public Law 94-579, to remain available through September 30, 2023, of 
which not to exceed 6 percent shall be available for administrative 
expenses associated with on-the-ground range rehabilitation, 
protection, and improvements.

    gifts, donations and bequests for forest and rangeland research

    For expenses authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1643(b), $45,000, to remain 
available through September 30, 2023, to be derived from the fund 
established pursuant to the above Act.

        management of national forest lands for subsistence uses

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service to manage Federal 
lands in Alaska for subsistence uses under title VIII of the Alaska 
National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3111 et seq.), 
$2,500,000, to remain available through September 30, 2023.

                        wildland fire management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for forest fire presuppression activities on 
National Forest System lands, for emergency wildland fire suppression 
on or adjacent to such lands or other lands under fire protection 
agreement, and for emergency rehabilitation of burned-over National 
Forest System lands and water, $2,009,545,000 (increased by 
$2,000,000), to remain available through September 30, 2023:  Provided, 
That such funds including unobligated balances under this heading, are 
available for repayment of advances from other appropriations accounts 
previously transferred for such purposes:  Provided further, That any 
unobligated funds appropriated in a previous fiscal year for hazardous 
fuels management may be transferred to the ``National Forest System'' 
account:  Provided further, That such funds shall be available to 
reimburse State and other cooperating entities for services provided in 
response to wildfire and other emergencies or disasters to the extent 
such reimbursements by the Forest Service for non-fire emergencies are 
fully repaid by the responsible emergency management agency:  Provided 
further, That funds provided shall be available for support to Federal 
emergency response:  Provided further, That the costs of implementing 
any cooperative agreement between the Federal Government and any non-
Federal entity may be shared, as mutually agreed on by the affected 
parties:  Provided further, That of the funds provided under this 
heading, $1,011,000,000 shall be available for wildfire suppression 
operations, and is provided to meet the terms of section 
251(b)(2)(F)(ii)(I) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.
     In addition to the amounts provided under this heading for 
wildfire suppression operations, $1,950,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, is additional new budget authority as specified for 
purposes of section 251(b)(2)(F) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided, That the Secretary of 
Agriculture may transfer such amounts to the Department of Interior for 
wildfire suppression operations.

               administrative provisions--forest service

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Appropriations to the Forest Service for the current fiscal year 
shall be available for: (1) purchase of passenger motor vehicles; 
acquisition of passenger motor vehicles from excess sources, and hire 
of such vehicles; purchase, lease, operation, maintenance, and 
acquisition of aircraft to maintain the operable fleet for use in 
Forest Service wildland fire programs and other Forest Service 
programs; notwithstanding other provisions of law, existing aircraft 
being replaced may be sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in value 
used to offset the purchase price for the replacement aircraft; (2) 
services pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2225, and not to exceed $100,000 for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; (3) purchase, erection, and alteration 
of buildings and other public improvements (7 U.S.C. 2250); (4) 
acquisition of land, waters, and interests therein pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 
428a; (5) for expenses pursuant to the Volunteers in the National 
Forest Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 558a, 558d, and 558a note); (6) the cost 
of uniforms as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and (7) for debt 
collection contracts in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(c).
    Not more than $50,000,000 of funds appropriated to the Forest 
Service shall be available for expenditure or transfer to the 
Department of the Interior for wildland fire management, hazardous 
fuels management, and State fire assistance when such transfers would 
facilitate and expedite wildland fire management programs and projects.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
assistance to or through the Agency for International Development in 
connection with forest and rangeland research, technical information, 
and assistance in foreign countries, and shall be available to support 
forestry and related natural resource activities outside the United 
States and its territories and possessions, including technical 
assistance, education and training, and cooperation with United States, 
private, and international organizations. The Forest Service, acting 
for the International Program, may sign direct funding agreements with 
foreign governments and institutions as well as other domestic agencies 
(including the United States Agency for International Development, the 
Department of State, and the Millennium Challenge Corporation), United 
States private sector firms, institutions and organizations to provide 
technical assistance and training programs overseas on forestry and 
rangeland management.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
expenditure or transfer to the Department of the Interior, Bureau of 
Land Management, for removal, preparation, and adoption of excess wild 
horses and burros from National Forest System lands, and for the 
performance of cadastral surveys to designate the boundaries of such 
lands.
    None of the funds made available to the Forest Service in this Act 
or any other Act with respect to any fiscal year shall be subject to 
transfer under the provisions of section 702(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257), section 442 of Public 
Law 106-224 (7 U.S.C. 7772), or section 10417(b) of Public Law 107-171 
(7 U.S.C. 8316(b)).
    Not more than $82,000,000 of funds available to the Forest Service 
shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund of the Department of 
Agriculture and not more than $14,500,000 of funds available to the 
Forest Service shall be transferred to the Department of Agriculture 
for Department Reimbursable Programs, commonly referred to as Greenbook 
charges. Nothing in this paragraph shall prohibit or limit the use of 
reimbursable agreements requested by the Forest Service in order to 
obtain services from the Department of Agriculture's National 
Information Technology Center and the Department of Agriculture's 
International Technology Service.
    Of the funds available to the Forest Service, up to $5,000,000 
shall be available for priority projects within the scope of the 
approved budget, which shall be carried out by the Youth Conservation 
Corps and shall be carried out under the authority of the Public Lands 
Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.).
    Of the funds available to the Forest Service, $4,000 is available 
to the Chief of the Forest Service for official reception and 
representation expenses.
    Pursuant to sections 405(b) and 410(b) of Public Law 101-593, of 
the funds available to the Forest Service, up to $3,000,000 may be 
advanced in a lump sum to the National Forest Foundation to aid 
conservation partnership projects in support of the Forest Service 
mission, without regard to when the Foundation incurs expenses, for 
projects on or benefitting National Forest System lands or related to 
Forest Service programs:  Provided, That of the Federal funds made 
available to the Foundation, no more than $300,000 shall be available 
for administrative expenses:  Provided further, That the Foundation 
shall obtain, by the end of the period of Federal financial assistance, 
private contributions to match funds made available by the Forest 
Service on at least a one-for-one basis:  Provided further, That the 
Foundation may transfer Federal funds to a Federal or a non-Federal 
recipient for a project at the same rate that the recipient has 
obtained the non-Federal matching funds.
    Pursuant to section 2(b)(2) of Public Law 98-244, up to $3,000,000 
of the funds available to the Forest Service may be advanced to the 
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation in a lump sum to aid cost-share 
conservation projects, without regard to when expenses are incurred, on 
or benefitting National Forest System lands or related to Forest 
Service programs:  Provided, That such funds shall be matched on at 
least a one-for-one basis by the Foundation or its sub-recipients:  
Provided further, That the Foundation may transfer Federal funds to a 
Federal or non-Federal recipient for a project at the same rate that 
the recipient has obtained the non-Federal matching funds.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
interactions with and providing technical assistance to rural 
communities and natural resource-based businesses for sustainable rural 
development purposes.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
payments to counties within the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic 
Area, pursuant to section 14(c)(1) and (2), and section 16(a)(2) of 
Public Law 99-663.
    Any funds appropriated to the Forest Service may be used to meet 
the non-Federal share requirement in section 502(c) of the Older 
Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056(c)(2)).
    The Forest Service shall not assess funds for the purpose of 
performing fire, administrative, and other facilities maintenance and 
decommissioning.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall not be available for 
the destruction of healthy, unadopted, wild horses and burros in the 
care of the Forest Service or its contractors or for the sale of wild 
horses and burros that results in their destruction for processing into 
commercial products.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of any appropriations 
or funds available to the Forest Service, not to exceed $500,000 may be 
used to reimburse the Office of the General Counsel (OGC), Department 
of Agriculture, for travel and related expenses incurred as a result of 
OGC assistance or participation requested by the Forest Service at 
meetings, training sessions, management reviews, land purchase 
negotiations and similar matters unrelated to civil litigation. Future 
budget justifications for both the Forest Service and the Department of 
Agriculture should clearly display the sums previously transferred and 
the sums requested for transfer.
    An eligible individual who is employed in any project funded under 
title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056 et seq.) and 
administered by the Forest Service shall be considered to be a Federal 
employee for purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, through the Office 
of Budget and Program Analysis, the Forest Service shall report no 
later than 30 business days following the close of each fiscal quarter 
all current and prior year unobligated balances, by fiscal year, budget 
line item and account, to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                         Indian Health Service

                         indian health services

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 
Stat. 674), the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, 
the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and titles II and III of the 
Public Health Service Act with respect to the Indian Health Service, 
$4,556,870,000 (increased by $1,000,000) (increased by $35,000,000) 
(reduced by $35,000,000), to remain available until September 30, 2021, 
except as otherwise provided herein, together with payments received 
during the fiscal year pursuant to sections 231(b) and 233 of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 238(b) and 238b), for services 
furnished by the Indian Health Service:  Provided, That funds made 
available to tribes and tribal organizations through contracts, grant 
agreements, or any other agreements or compacts authorized by the 
Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975 (25 
U.S.C. 450), shall be deemed to be obligated at the time of the grant 
or contract award and thereafter shall remain available to the tribe or 
tribal organization without fiscal year limitation:  Provided further, 
That $2,000,000 shall be available for grants or contracts with public 
or private institutions to provide alcohol or drug treatment services 
to Indians, including alcohol detoxification services:  Provided 
further, That $969,479,000 for Purchased/Referred Care, including 
$53,000,000 for the Indian Catastrophic Health Emergency Fund, shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided further, That of the funds 
provided, up to $50,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
implementation of the loan repayment program under section 108 of the 
Indian Health Care Improvement Act:  Provided further, That of the 
funds provided, $53,000,000 shall remain available until expended to 
supplement funds available for operational costs at tribal clinics 
operated under an Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance 
Act compact or contract where health care is delivered in space 
acquired through a full service lease, which is not eligible for 
maintenance and improvement and equipment funds from the Indian Health 
Service, and $58,000,000 shall be for costs related to or resulting 
from accreditation emergencies, including supplementing activities 
funded under the heading ``Indian Health Facilities,'' of which up to 
$4,000,000 may be used to supplement amounts otherwise available for 
Purchased/Referred Care:  Provided further, That the amounts collected 
by the Federal Government as authorized by sections 104 and 108 of the 
Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1613a and 1616a) during 
the preceding fiscal year for breach of contracts shall be deposited to 
the Fund authorized by section 108A of that Act (25 U.S.C. 1616a-1) and 
shall remain available until expended and, notwithstanding section 
108A(c) of that Act (25 U.S.C. 1616a-1(c)), funds shall be available to 
make new awards under the loan repayment and scholarship programs under 
sections 104 and 108 of that Act (25 U.S.C. 1613a and 1616a):  Provided 
further, That the amounts made available within this account for the 
Substance Abuse and Suicide Prevention Program, for Opioid Prevention, 
Treatment and Recovery Services, for the Domestic Violence Prevention 
Program, for the Zero Suicide Initiative, for the housing subsidy 
authority for civilian employees, for Aftercare Pilot Programs at Youth 
Regional Treatment Centers, for transformation and modernization costs 
of the Indian Health Service Electronic Health Record system, for 
national quality and oversight activities, for initiatives to treat or 
reduce the transmission of Hepatitis-C and HIV-AIDS or both in high 
priority areas, to improve collections from public and private 
insurance at Indian Health Service and tribally operated facilities, 
and for accreditation emergencies shall be allocated at the discretion 
of the Director of the Indian Health Service and shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That funds provided in this Act may 
be used for annual contracts and grants that fall within 2 fiscal 
years, provided the total obligation is recorded in the year the funds 
are appropriated:  Provided further, That the amounts collected by the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services under the authority of title IV 
of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1613) shall remain 
available until expended for the purpose of achieving compliance with 
the applicable conditions and requirements of titles XVIII and XIX of 
the Social Security Act, except for those related to the planning, 
design, or construction of new facilities:  Provided further, That 
funding contained herein for scholarship programs under the Indian 
Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1613) shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That amounts received by tribes and 
tribal organizations under title IV of the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act shall be reported and accounted for and available to 
the receiving tribes and tribal organizations until expended:  Provided 
further, That the Bureau of Indian Affairs may collect from the Indian 
Health Service, and from tribes and tribal organizations operating 
health facilities pursuant to Public Law 93-638, such individually 
identifiable health information relating to disabled children as may be 
necessary for the purpose of carrying out its functions under the 
Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.):  
Provided further, That of the funds provided, $72,280,000 is for the 
Indian Health Care Improvement Fund and may be used, as needed, to 
carry out activities typically funded under the Indian Health 
Facilities account;  Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated by this Act to the Indian Health Service for the 
Electronic Health Record system shall be available for obligation or 
expenditure for the selection or implementation of a new Information 
Technology infrastructure system, unless the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate are 
consulted 90 days in advance of such obligation.

                         contract support costs

    For payments to tribes and tribal organizations for contract 
support costs associated with Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act agreements with the Indian Health Service for fiscal 
year 2020, such sums as may be necessary:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, no amounts made available 
under this heading shall be available for transfer to another budget 
account.

                        indian health facilities

    For construction, repair, maintenance, improvement, demolition, and 
equipment of health and related auxiliary facilities, including 
quarters for personnel; preparation of plans, specifications, and 
drawings; acquisition of sites, purchase and erection of modular 
buildings, and purchases of trailers; and for provision of domestic and 
community sanitation facilities for Indians, as authorized by section 7 
of the Act of August 5, 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2004a), the Indian Self-
Determination Act, and the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and for 
expenses necessary to carry out such Acts and titles II and III of the 
Public Health Service Act with respect to environmental health and 
facilities support activities of the Indian Health Service, 
$964,121,000 (reduced by $7,000,000) (increased by $7,000,000), to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, funds appropriated for the planning, design, 
construction, renovation or expansion of health facilities for the 
benefit of an Indian tribe or tribes may be used to purchase land on 
which such facilities will be located:  Provided further, That not to 
exceed $500,000 may be used by the Indian Health Service to purchase 
TRANSAM equipment from the Department of Defense for distribution to 
the Indian Health Service and tribal facilities:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated to the Indian Health Service may be 
used for sanitation facilities construction for new homes funded with 
grants by the housing programs of the United States Department of 
Housing and Urban Development.

            administrative provisions--indian health service

    Appropriations provided in this Act to the Indian Health Service 
shall be available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 at rates 
not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable 
for senior-level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft; purchase of medical equipment; purchase of 
reprints; purchase, renovation and erection of modular buildings and 
renovation of existing facilities; payments for telephone service in 
private residences in the field, when authorized under regulations 
approved by the Secretary of Health and Human Services; uniforms or 
allowances therefor as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and for 
expenses of attendance at meetings that relate to the functions or 
activities of the Indian Health Service:  Provided, That in accordance 
with the provisions of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, non-
Indian patients may be extended health care at all tribally 
administered or Indian Health Service facilities, subject to charges, 
and the proceeds along with funds recovered under the Federal Medical 
Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651-2653) shall be credited to the 
account of the facility providing the service and shall be available 
without fiscal year limitation:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other law or regulation, funds transferred from the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development to the Indian Health Service shall be 
administered under Public Law 86-121, the Indian Sanitation Facilities 
Act and Public Law 93-638:  Provided further, That funds appropriated 
to the Indian Health Service in this Act, except those used for 
administrative and program direction purposes, shall not be subject to 
limitations directed at curtailing Federal travel and transportation:  
Provided further, That none of the funds made available to the Indian 
Health Service in this Act shall be used for any assessments or charges 
by the Department of Health and Human Services unless identified in the 
budget justification and provided in this Act, or approved by the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations through the reprogramming 
process:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, funds previously or herein made available to a tribe or tribal 
organization through a contract, grant, or agreement authorized by 
title I or title V of the Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.), may be deobligated and 
reobligated to a self-determination contract under title I, or a self-
governance agreement under title V of such Act and thereafter shall 
remain available to the tribe or tribal organization without fiscal 
year limitation:  Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available to the Indian Health Service in this Act shall be used to 
implement the final rule published in the Federal Register on September 
16, 1987, by the Department of Health and Human Services, relating to 
the eligibility for the health care services of the Indian Health 
Service until the Indian Health Service has submitted a budget request 
reflecting the increased costs associated with the proposed final rule, 
and such request has been included in an appropriations Act and enacted 
into law:  Provided further, That with respect to functions transferred 
by the Indian Health Service to tribes or tribal organizations, the 
Indian Health Service is authorized to provide goods and services to 
those entities on a reimbursable basis, including payments in advance 
with subsequent adjustment, and the reimbursements received therefrom, 
along with the funds received from those entities pursuant to the 
Indian Self-Determination Act, may be credited to the same or 
subsequent appropriation account from which the funds were originally 
derived, with such amounts to remain available until expended:  
Provided further, That reimbursements for training, technical 
assistance, or services provided by the Indian Health Service will 
contain total costs, including direct, administrative, and overhead 
costs associated with the provision of goods, services, or technical 
assistance:  Provided further, That the Indian Health Service may 
provide to civilian medical personnel serving in hospitals operated by 
the Indian Health Service housing allowances equivalent to those that 
would be provided to members of the Commissioned Corps of the United 
States Public Health Service serving in similar positions at such 
hospitals:  Provided further, That the appropriation structure for the 
Indian Health Service may not be altered without advance notification 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.

                     National Institutes of Health

          national institute of environmental health sciences

    For necessary expenses for the National Institute of Environmental 
Health Sciences in carrying out activities set forth in section 311(a) 
of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9660(a)) and section 126(g) of the 
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, $80,000,000.

            Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry

            toxic substances and environmental public health

    For necessary expenses for the Agency for Toxic Substances and 
Disease Registry (ATSDR) in carrying out activities set forth in 
sections 104(i) and 111(c)(4) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) and section 
3019 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, $79,691,000:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, in lieu of performing a 
health assessment under section 104(i)(6) of CERCLA, the Administrator 
of ATSDR may conduct other appropriate health studies, evaluations, or 
activities, including, without limitation, biomedical testing, clinical 
evaluations, medical monitoring, and referral to accredited healthcare 
providers:  Provided further, That in performing any such health 
assessment or health study, evaluation, or activity, the Administrator 
of ATSDR shall not be bound by the deadlines in section 104(i)(6)(A) of 
CERCLA:  Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under 
this heading shall be available for ATSDR to issue in excess of 40 
toxicological profiles pursuant to section 104(i) of CERCLA during 
fiscal year 2020, and existing profiles may be updated as necessary.

                         OTHER RELATED AGENCIES

                   Executive Office of the President

  council on environmental quality and office of environmental quality

    For necessary expenses to continue functions assigned to the 
Council on Environmental Quality and Office of Environmental Quality 
pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the 
Environmental Quality Improvement Act of 1970, and Reorganization Plan 
No. 1 of 1977, and not to exceed $750 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $2,994,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
section 202 of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1970, the 
Council shall consist of one member, appointed by the President, by and 
with the advice and consent of the Senate, serving as chairman and 
exercising all powers, functions, and duties of the Council.

             Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses in carrying out activities pursuant to 
section 112(r)(6) of the Clean Air Act, including hire of passenger 
vehicles, uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
5901-5902, and for services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates 
for individuals not to exceed the per diem equivalent to the maximum 
rate payable for senior level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376, 
$12,000,000:  Provided, That the Chemical Safety and Hazard 
Investigation Board (Board) shall have not more than three career 
Senior Executive Service positions:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the individual appointed to 
the position of Inspector General of the Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) shall, by virtue of such appointment, also hold the 
position of Inspector General of the Board:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Inspector General of 
the Board shall utilize personnel of the Office of Inspector General of 
EPA in performing the duties of the Inspector General of the Board, and 
shall not appoint any individuals to positions within the Board.

              Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian 
Relocation as authorized by Public Law 93-531, $7,500,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That funds provided in this or any 
other appropriations Act are to be used to relocate eligible 
individuals and groups including evictees from District 6, Hopi-
partitioned lands residents, those in significantly substandard 
housing, and all others certified as eligible and not included in the 
preceding categories:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
contained in this or any other Act may be used by the Office of Navajo 
and Hopi Indian Relocation to evict any single Navajo or Navajo family 
who, as of November 30, 1985, was physically domiciled on the lands 
partitioned to the Hopi Tribe unless a new or replacement home is 
provided for such household:  Provided further, That no relocatee will 
be provided with more than one new or replacement home:  Provided 
further, That the Office shall relocate any certified eligible 
relocatees who have selected and received an approved homesite on the 
Navajo reservation or selected a replacement residence off the Navajo 
reservation or on the land acquired pursuant to section 11 of Public 
Law 93-531 (88 Stat. 1716).

    Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts 
                              Development

                        payment to the institute

    For payment to the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native 
Culture and Arts Development, as authorized by part A of title XV of 
Public Law 99-498 (20 U.S.C. 4411 et seq.), $10,850,000, which shall 
become available on July 1, 2020, and shall remain available until 
September 30, 2021.

                        Smithsonian Institution

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Smithsonian Institution, as 
authorized by law, including research in the fields of art, science, 
and history; development, preservation, and documentation of the 
National Collections; presentation of public exhibits and performances; 
collection, preparation, dissemination, and exchange of information and 
publications; conduct of education, training, and museum assistance 
programs; maintenance, alteration, operation, lease agreements of no 
more than 30 years, and protection of buildings, facilities, and 
approaches; not to exceed $100,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and purchase, rental, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for 
employees, $852,345,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, 
except as otherwise provided herein; of which not to exceed $6,908,000 
for the instrumentation program, collections acquisition, exhibition 
reinstallation, and the repatriation of skeletal remains program shall 
remain available until expended; and including such funds as may be 
necessary to support American overseas research centers:  Provided, 
That funds appropriated herein are available for advance payments to 
independent contractors performing research services or participating 
in official Smithsonian presentations.

                           facilities capital

    For necessary expenses of repair, revitalization, and alteration of 
facilities owned or occupied by the Smithsonian Institution, by 
contract or otherwise, as authorized by section 2 of the Act of August 
22, 1949 (63 Stat. 623), and for construction, including necessary 
personnel, $219,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not to exceed $10,000 shall be for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109.

                        National Gallery of Art

                         salaries and expenses

    For the upkeep and operations of the National Gallery of Art, the 
protection and care of the works of art therein, and administrative 
expenses incident thereto, as authorized by the Act of March 24, 1937 
(50 Stat. 51), as amended by the public resolution of April 13, 1939 
(Public Resolution 9, Seventy-sixth Congress), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; payment in advance when authorized by the 
treasurer of the Gallery for membership in library, museum, and art 
associations or societies whose publications or services are available 
to members only, or to members at a price lower than to the general 
public; purchase, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for guards, and 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, for other employees as authorized by 
law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); purchase or rental of devices and services 
for protecting buildings and contents thereof, and maintenance, 
alteration, improvement, and repair of buildings, approaches, and 
grounds; and purchase of services for restoration and repair of works 
of art for the National Gallery of Art by contracts made, without 
advertising, with individuals, firms, or organizations at such rates or 
prices and under such terms and conditions as the Gallery may deem 
proper, $147,022,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, of 
which not to exceed $3,660,000 for the special exhibition program shall 
remain available until expended.

            repair, restoration and renovation of buildings

    For necessary expenses of repair, restoration and renovation of 
buildings, grounds and facilities owned or occupied by the National 
Gallery of Art, by contract or otherwise, for operating lease 
agreements of no more than 10 years, with no extensions or renewals 
beyond the 10 years, that address space needs created by the ongoing 
renovations in the Master Facilities Plan, as authorized, $34,603,000, 
to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of this amount, 
$1,000,000 shall be available for design of an off-site art storage 
facility in partnership with the Smithsonian Institution:  Provided 
further, That contracts awarded for environmental systems, protection 
systems, and exterior repair or renovation of buildings of the National 
Gallery of Art may be negotiated with selected contractors and awarded 
on the basis of contractor qualifications as well as price.

             John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

                       operations and maintenance

    For necessary expenses for the operation, maintenance and security 
of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, $25,690,000.

                     capital repair and restoration

    For necessary expenses for capital repair and restoration of the 
existing features of the building and site of the John F. Kennedy 
Center for the Performing Arts, $17,800,000, to remain available until 
expended.

            Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the provisions of the 
Woodrow Wilson Memorial Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1356) including hire of 
passenger vehicles and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$14,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021.

           National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities

                    National Endowment for the Arts

                       grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, $167,500,000 shall be available to 
the National Endowment for the Arts for the support of projects and 
productions in the arts, including arts education and public outreach 
activities, through assistance to organizations and individuals 
pursuant to section 5 of the Act, for program support, and for 
administering the functions of the Act, to remain available until 
expended.

                 National Endowment for the Humanities

                       grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, $167,500,000 to remain available 
until expended, of which $152,500,000 shall be available for support of 
activities in the humanities, pursuant to section 7(c) of the Act and 
for administering the functions of the Act; and $15,000,000 shall be 
available to carry out the matching grants program pursuant to section 
10(a)(2) of the Act, including $13,000,000 for the purposes of section 
7(h):  Provided, That appropriations for carrying out section 10(a)(2) 
shall be available for obligation only in such amounts as may be equal 
to the total amounts of gifts, bequests, devises of money, and other 
property accepted by the chairman or by grantees of the National 
Endowment for the Humanities under the provisions of sections 
11(a)(2)(B) and 11(a)(3)(B) during the current and preceding fiscal 
years for which equal amounts have not previously been appropriated.

                       Administrative Provisions

    None of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used to process any grant or contract 
documents which do not include the text of 18 U.S.C. 1913:  Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses:  Provided further, That funds from 
nonappropriated sources may be used as necessary for official reception 
and representation expenses:  Provided further, That the Chairperson of 
the National Endowment for the Arts may approve grants of up to 
$10,000, if in the aggregate the amount of such grants does not exceed 
5 percent of the sums appropriated for grantmaking purposes per year:  
Provided further, That such small grant actions are taken pursuant to 
the terms of an expressed and direct delegation of authority from the 
National Council on the Arts to the Chairperson.

                        Commission of Fine Arts

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses of the Commission of Fine Arts under chapter 91 of 
title 40, United States Code, $3,282,000:  Provided, That the 
Commission is authorized to charge fees to cover the full costs of its 
publications, and such fees shall be credited to this account as an 
offsetting collection, to remain available until expended without 
further appropriation:  Provided further, That the Commission is 
authorized to accept gifts, including objects, papers, artwork, 
drawings and artifacts, that pertain to the history and design of the 
Nation's Capital or the history and activities of the Commission of 
Fine Arts, for the purpose of artistic display, study, or education:  
Provided further, That one-tenth of one percent of the funds provided 
under this heading may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses.

               national capital arts and cultural affairs

    For necessary expenses as authorized by Public Law 99-190 (20 
U.S.C. 956a), $5,000,000.

               Advisory Council on Historic Preservation

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Advisory Council on Historic 
Preservation (Public Law 89-665), $7,388,000.

                  National Capital Planning Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Capital Planning Commission 
under chapter 87 of title 40, United States Code, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $8,124,000:  Provided, That one-quarter of 
1 percent of the funds provided under this heading may be used for 
official reception and representational expenses associated with 
hosting international visitors engaged in the planning and physical 
development of world capitals.

                United States Holocaust Memorial Museum

                       holocaust memorial museum

    For expenses of the Holocaust Memorial Museum, as authorized by 
Public Law 106-292 (36 U.S.C. 2301-2310), $61,388,000, of which 
$715,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2022, for the 
Museum's equipment replacement program; and of which $3,000,000 for the 
Museum's repair and rehabilitation program and $1,264,000 for the 
Museum's outreach initiatives program shall remain available until 
expended.

                Dwight d. Eisenhower Memorial Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial 
Commission, $1,800,000, to remain available until expended.

                   world war i centennial commission

                         salaries and expenses

    Notwithstanding section 9 of the World War I Centennial Commission 
Act, as authorized by the World War I Centennial Commission Act (Public 
Law 112-272) and the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291), 
for necessary expenses of the World War I Centennial Commission, 
$6,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, 
That in addition to the authority provided by section 6(g) of such Act, 
the World War I Commission may accept money, in-kind personnel 
services, contractual support, or any appropriate support from any 
executive branch agency for activities of the Commission.

                                TITLE IV

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      restriction on use of funds

    Sec. 401.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available for any activity or the publication or distribution of 
literature that in any way tends to promote public support or 
opposition to any legislative proposal on which Congressional action is 
not complete other than to communicate to Members of Congress as 
described in 18 U.S.C. 1913.

                      obligation of appropriations

    Sec. 402.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.

                 disclosure of administrative expenses

    Sec. 403.  The amount and basis of estimated overhead charges, 
deductions, reserves or holdbacks, including working capital fund and 
cost pool charges, from programs, projects, activities and 
subactivities to support government-wide, departmental, agency, or 
bureau administrative functions or headquarters, regional, or central 
operations shall be presented in annual budget justifications and 
subject to approval by the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate. Changes to such estimates shall be 
presented to the Committees on Appropriations for approval.

                          mining applications

    Sec. 404. (a) Limitation of Funds.--None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or 
expended to accept or process applications for a patent for any mining 
or mill site claim located under the general mining laws.
    (b) Exceptions.--Subsection (a) shall not apply if the Secretary of 
the Interior determines that, for the claim concerned (1) a patent 
application was filed with the Secretary on or before September 30, 
1994; and (2) all requirements established under sections 2325 and 2326 
of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 29 and 30) for vein or lode claims, 
sections 2329, 2330, 2331, and 2333 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 
35, 36, and 37) for placer claims, and section 2337 of the Revised 
Statutes (30 U.S.C. 42) for mill site claims, as the case may be, were 
fully complied with by the applicant by that date.
    (c) Report.--On September 30, 2021, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall file with the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and 
the Committee on Natural Resources of the House and the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report on actions taken by 
the Department under the plan submitted pursuant to section 314(c) of 
the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1997 (Public Law 104-208).
    (d) Mineral Examinations.--In order to process patent applications 
in a timely and responsible manner, upon the request of a patent 
applicant, the Secretary of the Interior shall allow the applicant to 
fund a qualified third-party contractor to be selected by the Director 
of the Bureau of Land Management to conduct a mineral examination of 
the mining claims or mill sites contained in a patent application as 
set forth in subsection (b). The Bureau of Land Management shall have 
the sole responsibility to choose and pay the third-party contractor in 
accordance with the standard procedures employed by the Bureau of Land 
Management in the retention of third-party contractors.

             contract support costs, prior year limitation

    Sec. 405.  Sections 405 and 406 of division F of the Consolidated 
and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Public Law 113-235) 
shall continue in effect in fiscal year 2020.

          contract support costs, fiscal year 2020 limitation

    Sec. 406.  Amounts provided by this Act for fiscal year 2020 under 
the headings ``Department of Health and Human Services, Indian Health 
Service, Contract Support Costs'' and ``Department of the Interior, 
Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education, Contract 
Support Costs'' are the only amounts available for contract support 
costs arising out of self-determination or self-governance contracts, 
grants, compacts, or annual funding agreements for fiscal year 2020 
with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Bureau of Indian Education, and the 
Indian Health Service:  Provided, That such amounts provided by this 
Act are not available for payment of claims for contract support costs 
for prior years, or for repayments of payments for settlements or 
judgments awarding contract support costs for prior years.

                        forest management plans

    Sec. 407.  The Secretary of Agriculture shall not be considered to 
be in violation of subparagraph 6(f)(5)(A) of the Forest and Rangeland 
Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1604(f)(5)(A)) 
solely because more than 15 years have passed without revision of the 
plan for a unit of the National Forest System. Nothing in this section 
exempts the Secretary from any other requirement of the Forest and 
Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act (16 U.S.C. 1600 et seq.) or 
any other law:  Provided, That if the Secretary is not acting 
expeditiously and in good faith, within the funding available, to 
revise a plan for a unit of the National Forest System, this section 
shall be void with respect to such plan and a court of proper 
jurisdiction may order completion of the plan on an accelerated basis.

                 prohibition within national monuments

    Sec. 408.  No funds provided in this Act may be expended to conduct 
preleasing, leasing and related activities under either the Mineral 
Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) or the Outer Continental Shelf 
Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.) within the boundaries of a National 
Monument established pursuant to the Act of June 8, 1906 (16 U.S.C. 431 
et seq.) as such boundary existed on January 20, 2001, except where 
such activities are allowed under the Presidential proclamation 
establishing such monument.

                         limitation on takings

    Sec. 409.  Unless otherwise provided herein, no funds appropriated 
in this Act for the acquisition of lands or interests in lands may be 
expended for the filing of declarations of taking or complaints in 
condemnation without the approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations:  Provided, That this provision shall not apply to funds 
appropriated to implement the Everglades National Park Protection and 
Expansion Act of 1989, or to funds appropriated for Federal assistance 
to the State of Florida to acquire lands for Everglades restoration 
purposes.

                    prohibition on no-bid contracts

    Sec. 410.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act to executive branch agencies may be used to enter 
into any Federal contract unless such contract is entered into in 
accordance with the requirements of Chapter 33 of title 41, United 
States Code, or Chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, and the 
Federal Acquisition Regulation, unless--
            (1) Federal law specifically authorizes a contract to be 
        entered into without regard for these requirements, including 
        formula grants for States, or federally recognized Indian 
        tribes;
            (2) such contract is authorized by the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (Public Law 93-638, 
        25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.) or by any other Federal laws that 
        specifically authorize a contract within an Indian tribe as 
        defined in section 4(e) of that Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(e)); or
            (3) such contract was awarded prior to the date of 
        enactment of this Act.

                           posting of reports

    Sec. 411. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in this 
Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on the public 
website of that agency any report required to be submitted by the 
Congress in this or any other Act, upon the determination by the head 
of the agency that it shall serve the national interest.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
        security; or
            (2) the report contains proprietary information.
    (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so only 
after such report has been made available to the requesting Committee 
or Committees of Congress for no less than 45 days.

            national endowment for the arts grant guidelines

    Sec. 412.  Of the funds provided to the National Endowment for the 
Arts--
            (1) The Chairperson shall only award a grant to an 
        individual if such grant is awarded to such individual for a 
        literature fellowship, National Heritage Fellowship, or 
        American Jazz Masters Fellowship.
            (2) The Chairperson shall establish procedures to ensure 
        that no funding provided through a grant, except a grant made 
        to a State or local arts agency, or regional group, may be used 
        to make a grant to any other organization or individual to 
        conduct activity independent of the direct grant recipient. 
        Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit payments made in 
        exchange for goods and services.
            (3) No grant shall be used for seasonal support to a group, 
        unless the application is specific to the contents of the 
        season, including identified programs or projects.

           national endowment for the arts program priorities

    Sec. 413. (a) In providing services or awarding financial 
assistance under the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities 
Act of 1965 from funds appropriated under this Act, the Chairperson of 
the National Endowment for the Arts shall ensure that priority is given 
to providing services or awarding financial assistance for projects, 
productions, workshops, or programs that serve underserved populations.
    (b) In this section:
            (1) The term ``underserved population'' means a population 
        of individuals, including urban minorities, who have 
        historically been outside the purview of arts and humanities 
        programs due to factors such as a high incidence of income 
        below the poverty line or to geographic isolation.
            (2) The term ``poverty line'' means the poverty line (as 
        defined by the Office of Management and Budget, and revised 
        annually in accordance with section 673(2) of the Community 
        Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2))) applicable to a 
        family of the size involved.
    (c) In providing services and awarding financial assistance under 
the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965 with 
funds appropriated by this Act, the Chairperson of the National 
Endowment for the Arts shall ensure that priority is given to providing 
services or awarding financial assistance for projects, productions, 
workshops, or programs that will encourage public knowledge, education, 
understanding, and appreciation of the arts.
    (d) With funds appropriated by this Act to carry out section 5 of 
the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965--
            (1) the Chairperson shall establish a grant category for 
        projects, productions, workshops, or programs that are of 
        national impact or availability or are able to tour several 
        States;
            (2) the Chairperson shall not make grants exceeding 15 
        percent, in the aggregate, of such funds to any single State, 
        excluding grants made under the authority of paragraph (1);
            (3) the Chairperson shall report to the Congress annually 
        and by State, on grants awarded by the Chairperson in each 
        grant category under section 5 of such Act; and
            (4) the Chairperson shall encourage the use of grants to 
        improve and support community-based music performance and 
        education.

                  status of balances of appropriations

    Sec. 414.  The Department of the Interior, the Environmental 
Protection Agency, the Forest Service, and the Indian Health Service 
shall provide the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate quarterly reports on the status of balances 
of appropriations including all uncommitted, committed, and unobligated 
funds in each program and activity.

                        contracting authorities

    Sec. 415.  Section 412 of Division E of Public Law 112-74 is 
amended by striking ``fiscal year 2020'' and inserting ``fiscal year 
2021''.

                      extension of grazing permits

    Sec. 416.  The terms and conditions of section 325 of Public Law 
108-108 (117 Stat. 1307), regarding grazing permits issued by the 
Forest Service on any lands not subject to administration under section 
402 of the Federal Lands Policy and Management Act (43 U.S.C. 1752), 
shall remain in effect for fiscal year 2020.

                          funding prohibition

    Sec. 417. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network is 
designed to block access to pornography websites.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.

        forest service facility realignment and enhancement act

    Sec. 418.  Section 503(f) of the Forest Service Facility 
Realignment and Enhancement Act of 2005 (16 U.S.C. 580d note; Public 
Law 109-54) is amended by striking ``2019'' and inserting ``2020''.

                     use of american iron and steel

    Sec. 419. (a)(1) None of the funds made available by a State water 
pollution control revolving fund as authorized by section 1452 of the 
Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-12) shall be used for a project 
for the construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair of a public 
water system or treatment works unless all of the iron and steel 
products used in the project are produced in the United States.
    (2) In this section, the term ``iron and steel'' products means the 
following products made primarily of iron or steel: lined or unlined 
pipes and fittings, manhole covers and other municipal castings, 
hydrants, tanks, flanges, pipe clamps and restraints, valves, 
structural steel, reinforced precast concrete, and construction 
materials.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply in any case or category of cases 
in which the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (in 
this section referred to as the ``Administrator'') finds that--
            (1) applying subsection (a) would be inconsistent with the 
        public interest;
            (2) iron and steel products are not produced in the United 
        States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities and of 
        a satisfactory quality; or
            (3) inclusion of iron and steel products produced in the 
        United States will increase the cost of the overall project by 
        more than 25 percent.
    (c) If the Administrator receives a request for a waiver under this 
section, the Administrator shall make available to the public on an 
informal basis a copy of the request and information available to the 
Administrator concerning the request, and shall allow for informal 
public input on the request for at least 15 days prior to making a 
finding based on the request. The Administrator shall make the request 
and accompanying information available by electronic means, including 
on the official public Internet Web site of the Environmental 
Protection Agency.
    (d) This section shall be applied in a manner consistent with 
United States obligations under international agreements.
    (e) The Administrator may retain up to 0.25 percent of the funds 
appropriated in this Act for the Clean and Drinking Water State 
Revolving Funds for carrying out the provisions described in subsection 
(a)(1) for management and oversight of the requirements of this 
section.

                 john f. kennedy center reauthorization

    Sec. 420.  Section 13 of the John F. Kennedy Center Act (20 U.S.C. 
76r) is amended by striking subsections (a) and (b) and inserting the 
following:
    ``(a) Maintenance, Repair, and Security.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Board to carry out section 4(a)(1)(H), $25,690,000 
for fiscal year 2020.
    ``(b) Capital Projects.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
the Board to carry out subparagraphs (F) and (G) of section 4(a)(1), 
$17,800,000 for fiscal year 2020.''.

local cooperator training agreements and transfers of excess equipment 
                       and supplies for wildfires

    Sec. 421.  The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to enter 
into grants and cooperative agreements with volunteer fire departments, 
rural fire departments, rangeland fire protection associations, and 
similar organizations to provide for wildland fire training and 
equipment, including supplies and communication devices. 
Notwithstanding 121(c) of title 40, United States Code, or section 521 
of title 40, United States Code, the Secretary is further authorized to 
transfer title to excess Department of the Interior firefighting 
equipment no longer needed to carry out the functions of the 
Department's wildland fire management program to such organizations.

                            recreation fees

    Sec. 422.  Section 810 of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement 
Act (16 U.S.C. 6809) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2019'' and 
inserting ``September 30, 2021''.

 reprogramming procedures, disclosure of administrative expenses, and 
                            operating plans

    Sec. 423. (a) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            (1) ``Reprogramming'' includes:
                    (A) The reallocation of funds from one program, 
                project, or activity, to another within any 
                appropriation funded in this Act.
                    (B) For construction, land acquisition, and forest 
                legacy accounts, the reallocation of funds, including 
                unobligated balances, from one construction, land 
                acquisition, or forest legacy project to another such 
                project.
                    (C) An operating plan or any later modification 
                thereof submitted under subsection (i) of this section.
                    (D) Proposed reorganizations even without a change 
                in funding, including any change to the organization 
                table presented in the budget justification.
            (2) ``Program'', ``project'', and ``activity'' constitute 
        the delineation below the appropriation account level of any 
        agency funded by this Act, as shown in any table of the report 
        accompanying this Act.
            (3) ``Funds'' includes funds provided in this Act or 
        previous appropriations Acts that are available for obligation 
        in the current fiscal year and any amounts available for 
        obligation in the current fiscal year derived from collections, 
        fees or charges.
            (4) ``Assessment'' is any overhead charge, deduction, 
        reserve or holdback, including working capital fund and cost 
        pool charges, from any program, project, and activity to 
        support government-wide, departmental, agency, or bureau 
        administrative functions or headquarters, regional, or central 
        operations or to provide for contingencies.
    (b) General Guidelines for Reprogramming.--
            (1) A reprogramming should be made only when an unforeseen 
        situation arises, and then only if postponement of the project 
        or the activity until the next appropriation year would result 
        in actual loss or damage.
            (2) Any project or activity, which may be deferred through 
        reprogramming, shall not later be accomplished by means of 
        further reprogramming, but instead, funds should again be 
        sought for the deferred project or activity through the regular 
        appropriations process.
            (3) Except under the most urgent situations, reprogramming 
        should not be employed to initiate new programs or increase 
        allocations specifically denied or limited by the Congress, or 
        to decrease allocations specifically increased by the Congress.
            (4) New programs requested in the budget should not be 
        initiated before enactment of the bill without notification to, 
        and the approval of, the Committees on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives and the Senate (hereinafter ``the 
        Committees''). This restriction applies to all such actions 
        regardless of whether a formal reprogramming of funds is 
        required to begin the program.
    (c) Criteria.--
            (1) A reprogramming shall be submitted to the Committees in 
        writing 30 days prior to implementation if--
                    (A) it exceeds $1,000,000 individually or 
                cumulatively or results in a cumulative increase or 
                decrease of more than 10 percent of funds annually in 
                any affected program, project, or activity;
                    (B) it is a reorganization; or
                    (C) it is an operating plan or any later 
                modification thereof as submitted under subsection (i) 
                of this section:  Provided, That such plan or 
                modification thereof also meets any of the other 
                criteria under subsection (c)(1) of this section.
            (2) No funds shall be available for obligation or 
        expenditure through a reprogramming until 30 days after the 
        receipt by the Committees of a notice of proposed 
        reprogramming.
            (3) A reprogramming shall be considered approved 30 days 
        after receipt if the Committees have posed no objection. 
        However, agencies shall not implement the reprogramming and 
        shall extend the notification period if specifically requested 
        by either Committee.
    (d) Exceptions.--
            (1) With regard to the tribal priority allocations of the 
        Bureau of Indian Affairs, there is no restriction on 
        reprogrammings among these programs. However, the Bureau shall 
        report on all reprogrammings made during a given fiscal year no 
        later than 60 days after the end of the fiscal year.
            (2) With regard to the Environmental Protection Agency, 
        State and Tribal Assistance Grants account, the Committees do 
        not require reprogramming requests associated with States and 
        Tribal Partnership Grants.
            (3) With regard to funding for Park Management 
        subactivities within the National Park Service Operations of 
        the National Park System account, reprogramming guidelines 
        apply at the activity level, not the more detailed level as 
        shown in the Committee report. The National Park Service shall 
        report on actual spending at the more detailed level no later 
        than 60 days after the end of the fiscal year and show its 
        impact on the succeeding year budget at the more detailed level 
        in the budget justification submitted to the Congress in the 
        subsequent fiscal year for the purpose of updating the 
        Committee support table.
    (e) Assessments.--
            (1) No assessment shall be levied or collected unless such 
        assessment and the basis therefor are presented to the 
        Committees in the budget justifications and are subsequently 
        approved by the Committees. The explanation for any assessment 
        in the budget justification shall show the amount of the 
        assessment, the activities assessed, and the purpose of the 
        funds.
            (2) Proposed changes to estimated assessments, as such 
        estimates were presented in annual budget justifications, shall 
        be submitted through the reprogramming process set out in this 
        section and shall be subject to the same dollar and reporting 
        criteria as any other reprogramming.
            (3) Each department, agency or bureau that utilizes 
        assessments shall submit an annual report to the Committees 
        which provides details on the use of all funds assessed from 
        any other program, project, or activity.
            (4) In no case shall contingency funds or assessments be 
        used to finance agency actions disapproved or limited by the 
        Congress.
    (f) Land Acquisitions, Easements, and Forest Legacy.--Lands shall 
not be acquired for more than the approved appraised value (as 
addressed in section 301(3) of Public Law 91-646), unless such 
acquisitions are submitted to the Committees for approval in compliance 
with these procedures.
    (g) Land Exchanges.--Land exchanges, wherein the estimated value of 
the Federal lands to be exchanged is greater than $1,000,000, shall not 
be consummated until the Committees have had a 30-day period in which 
to examine the proposed exchange. In addition, the Committees shall be 
provided advance notification of exchanges valued between $500,000 and 
$1,000,000.
    (h) Budget Structure.--The program, project, and activity structure 
for any agency appropriation account shall not be altered without 
advance approval of the Committees.
    (i) Operating Plans.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, each department or agency funded by this Act 
shall submit an operating plan to the Committees to establish the 
baseline for application of reprogramming for the current fiscal year. 
The operating plan shall include--
            (1) a table for each appropriation with a separate column 
        to display the President's budget request, adjustments made by 
        the Congress, enacted rescissions, if appropriate, and the 
        fiscal year enacted level;
            (2) a delineation in the table for each appropriation by 
        program, project, and activity for the respective 
        appropriation; and
            (3) an identification of items of special congressional 
        interest.

                          project information

    Sec. 424. (a) Not later than April 1, 2020, and each April 1 
thereafter, the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate prioritized and detailed lists 
of federal land acquisition projects, and Forest Legacy projects, which 
could be executed within the three fiscal years beginning with the 
fiscal year after the date upon which the lists are submitted.
    (b) The federal land acquisition project lists required by 
subsection (a) shall include projects for the National Park Service, 
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, the Bureau of Land 
Management, and the United States Forest Service, including 
recreational public access projects as required by 54 U.S.C. 200306, 
and shall total for each agency no less than 150 percent of the amount 
enacted for that agency for the previous fiscal year.
    Sec. 425.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as referring 
only to the provisions of this division.
    Sec. 426.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this Act'' 
contained in this division shall be treated as a reference to House 
Report 116-100. The effect of such Report shall be limited to this 
division and shall apply for purposes of determining the allocation of 
funds provided by, and the implementation of, this division.
    Sec. 427.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
for the transfer of jurisdiction over border lands pursuant to 
Presidential Proclamation 9844 (Feb. 15, 2019).
    Sec. 428.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement Executive Order No. 13817 (82 Fed. Reg. 60835) with 
respect to uranium.
    Sec. 429.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to accept a nomination for oil and gas leasing under 43 CFR 3120.3 et 
seq, or to offer for oil and gas leasing, any federal lands within the 
withdrawal area identified on the map of the Chaco Culture National 
Historical Park prepared by the Bureau of Land Management and dated 
April 2, 2019.
    Sec. 430.  None of the funds made available to the National Park 
Service by this Act may be used to increase the generation of water 
bottle waste.
    Sec. 431.  None of the funds made available to the National Park 
Service by this Act may be used for the purchase or display of a 
Confederate flag with the exception of specific circumstances where the 
flags provide historical context as described in the National Park 
Service memorandum entitled ``Immediate Action Required, No Reply 
Needed: Confederate Flags'' and dated June 24, 2015.
    Sec. 432.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to issue a proposed or final rule to replace the Consolidated Federal 
Oil & Gas and Federal & Indian Coal Valuation Reform final rule, 
published in the Federal Register on July 1, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 43338).
    Sec. 433.  No funds made available by this Act may be used to 
finalize, implement, or enforce the proposed rule entitled ``Review of 
Standards of Performance for Greenhouse Gas Emissions From New, 
Modified, and Reconstructed Stationary Sources: Electric Utility 
Generating Units'' published in the Federal Register by the 
Environmental Protection Agency on December 20, 2018 (83 Fed. Reg. 
65424).
    Sec. 434.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to close or relocate any office of the Environmental Protection Agency 
that houses emergency responders or a criminal investigation unit.
    Sec. 435.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
for a Department of the Interior Executive Resources Board whose voting 
members are comprised of less than 50 percent career Senior Executive 
Service members.
    Sec. 436.  None of the funds made available by this Act to the 
United States Geological Survey may be used to limit the use of climate 
modeling tools.
    Sec. 437.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to close or relocate any EPA offices in regions that contain one or 
more designated Sulfur Dioxide (2010) Nonattainment Areas.
    Sec. 438.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Department of the Interior to conduct offshore oil and gas 
leasing, preleasing, or related activities in the Outer Continental 
Shelf Planning Areas for the South Atlantic, the Straits of Florida, 
and the areas of the Central and Eastern Gulf of Mexico described by 
section 104(a) of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 
(Public Law 109-432).
    Sec. 439.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Department of the Interior to conduct oil and gas leasing, 
preleasing, or related activities in the North Atlantic, Mid-Atlantic, 
or the South Atlantic Outer Continental Shelf Planning Areas.
    Sec. 440.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to issue a permit for the import of a sport-hunted trophy of an 
elephant or lion taken in Tanzania, Zimbabwe, or Zambia. The limitation 
described in this section shall not apply in the case of the 
administration of a tax or tariff.
    Sec. 441.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to plan, design, study, or construct, for the purpose of harvesting 
timber by private entities or individuals, a forest development road in 
the Tongass National Forest.
    Sec. 442.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used--
            (1) to conduct or authorize any person to conduct 
        geological or geophysical exploration for oil or gas, pursuant 
        to section 11(a) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 
        U.S.C. 1340(a)), in any area located in the Atlantic Region 
        Outer Continental Shelf Planning Areas, as such planning areas 
        are defined in the 2017-2022 Outer Continental Shelf Oil and 
        Gas Proposed Final Program described in the notice entitled 
        ``Notice of Availability of the 2017-2022 Outer Continental 
        Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program,'' published 
        by the Department of the Interior in the Federal Register on 
        November 23, 2018 (81 Fed. Reg. 84,612); or
            (2) to prepare or supplement an Environmental Impact 
        Statement or Environmental Assessment, pursuant to the National 
        Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), and 
        its associated regulations, for any such exploration.
    Sec. 443.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Department of the Interior to conduct oil and gas leasing, 
preleasing, or related activities in the Washington/Oregon, Northern 
California, Central California, and Southern California Outer 
Continental Shelf Planning Areas.
    Sec. 444.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to finalize the proposed revised supplemental ``appropriate and 
necessary'' finding in the proposed rule entitled ``National Emission 
Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric 
Utility Steam Generating Units--Reconsideration of Supplemental Finding 
and Residual Risk and Technology Review'' published by the 
Environmental Protection Agency in the Federal Register on February 7, 
2019 (84 Fed. Reg. 2670).
     This Act may be cited as the ``Department of the Interior, 
Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2020''.

   DIVISION D--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS, AND RELATED 
                   AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020

    The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for military construction, the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2020, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                      Military Construction, Army

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Army as currently authorized by 
law, including personnel in the Army Corps of Engineers and other 
personal services necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, and 
for construction and operation of facilities in support of the 
functions of the Commander in Chief, $1,132,499,000 (reduced by 
$37,000,000) (increased by $37,000,000) (reduced by $1) (increased by 
$1), to remain available until September 30, 2024: Provided, That, of 
this amount, not to exceed $136,099,000 shall be available for study, 
planning, design, architect and engineer services, and host nation 
support, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of the Army 
determines that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes 
and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor.

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, naval installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Navy and Marine Corps as currently authorized 
by law, including personnel in the Naval Facilities Engineering Command 
and other personal services necessary for the purposes of this 
appropriation, $2,205,771,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2024: Provided, That, of this amount, not to exceed $178,715,000 
(increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) shall be available 
for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer services, as 
authorized by law, unless the Secretary of the Navy determines that 
additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
determination and the reasons therefor.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Air Force as currently authorized 
by law, $1,588,730,000 (reduced by $1) (increased by $1) (reduced by 
$7,000,000) (increased by $7,000,000), to remain available until 
September 30, 2024: Provided, That, of this amount, not to exceed 
$153,148,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, and 
architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the 
Secretary of the Air Force determines that additional obligations are 
necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and the 
reasons therefor.

                  Military Construction, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, installations, facilities, and 
real property for activities and agencies of the Department of Defense 
(other than the military departments), as currently authorized by law, 
$2,025,799,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024: Provided, 
That such amounts of this appropriation as may be determined by the 
Secretary of Defense may be transferred to such appropriations of the 
Department of Defense available for military construction or family 
housing as the Secretary may designate, to be merged with and to be 
available for the same purposes, and for the same time period, as the 
appropriation or fund to which transferred: Provided further, That, of 
the amount, not to exceed $252,355,000 shall be available for study, 
planning, design, and architect and engineer services, as authorized by 
law, unless the Secretary of Defense determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor.

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
Army National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $210,819,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2024: Provided, That, of the amount, not to exceed $20,469,000 
shall be available for study, planning, design, and architect and 
engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the Director of the 
Army National Guard determines that additional obligations are 
necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and the 
reasons therefor.

               Military Construction, Air National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 
1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $115,971,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2024: Provided, That, of the amount, not to exceed $17,000,000 
shall be available for study, planning, design, and architect and 
engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the Director of the Air 
National Guard determines that additional obligations are necessary for 
such purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor.

                  Military Construction, Army Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
Army Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States 
Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $60,928,000 
(reduced by $7,000,000) (increased by $7,000,000), to remain available 
until September 30, 2024: Provided, That, of the amount, not to exceed 
$6,000,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, and 
architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the Chief 
of the Army Reserve determines that additional obligations are 
necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and the 
reasons therefor.

                  Military Construction, Navy Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
reserve components of the Navy and Marine Corps as authorized by 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $54,955,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2024: Provided, That, of the amount, not to exceed $4,780,000 shall 
be available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of the Navy 
determines that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes 
and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor.

                Military Construction, Air Force Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
Force Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States 
Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $59,750,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2024: Provided, That, of the 
amount, not to exceed $4,604,000 shall be available for study, 
planning, design, and architect and engineer services, as authorized by 
law, unless the Chief of the Air Force Reserve determines that 
additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
determination and the reasons therefor.

                   North Atlantic Treaty Organization

                      Security Investment Program

    For the United States share of the cost of the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization Security Investment Program for the acquisition and 
construction of military facilities and installations (including 
international military headquarters) and for related expenses for the 
collective defense of the North Atlantic Treaty Area as authorized by 
section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $172,005,000, to remain available until expended.

               Department of Defense Base Closure Account

    For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account, 
established by section 2906(a) of the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), $398,526,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                   Family Housing Construction, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension, and 
alteration, as authorized by law, $141,372,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2024.

             Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for operation and 
maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor construction, 
principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized 
by law, $407,907,000.

           Family Housing Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, 
extension, and alteration, as authorized by law, $47,661,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2024.

    Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
operation and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor 
construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, 
as authorized by law, $377,470,000.

                 Family Housing Construction, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension, and 
alteration, as authorized by law, $103,631,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2024.

          Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for operation and 
maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor construction, 
principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized 
by law, $326,216,000.

         Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of family housing for the activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense (other than the military departments) for 
operation and maintenance, leasing, and minor construction, as 
authorized by law, $57,000,000.

         Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund

    For the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund, 
$3,045,000, to remain available until expended, for family housing 
initiatives undertaken pursuant to section 2883 of title 10, United 
States Code, providing alternative means of acquiring and improving 
military family housing and supporting facilities.

            Military Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund

    For the Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing 
Improvement Fund, $500,000, to remain available until expended, for 
unaccompanied housing initiatives undertaken pursuant to section 2883 
of title 10, United States Code, providing alternative means of 
acquiring and improving military unaccompanied housing and supporting 
facilities.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
expended for payments under a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract for 
construction, where cost estimates exceed $25,000, to be performed 
within the United States, except Alaska, without the specific approval 
in writing of the Secretary of Defense setting forth the reasons 
therefor.
    Sec. 102.  Funds made available in this title for construction 
shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 103.  Funds made available in this title for construction may 
be used for advances to the Federal Highway Administration, Department 
of Transportation, for the construction of access roads as authorized 
by section 210 of title 23, United States Code, when projects 
authorized therein are certified as important to the national defense 
by the Secretary of Defense.
    Sec. 104.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to begin construction of new bases in the United States for which 
specific appropriations have not been made.
    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
used for purchase of land or land easements in excess of 100 percent of 
the value as determined by the Army Corps of Engineers or the Naval 
Facilities Engineering Command, except: (1) where there is a 
determination of value by a Federal court; (2) purchases negotiated by 
the Attorney General or the designee of the Attorney General; (3) where 
the estimated value is less than $25,000; or (4) as otherwise 
determined by the Secretary of Defense to be in the public interest.
    Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
used to: (1) acquire land; (2) provide for site preparation; or (3) 
install utilities for any family housing, except housing for which 
funds have been made available in annual Acts making appropriations for 
military construction.
    Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available in this title for minor 
construction may be used to transfer or relocate any activity from one 
base or installation to another, without prior notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used for the procurement of steel for any construction project or 
activity for which American steel producers, fabricators, and 
manufacturers have been denied the opportunity to compete for such 
steel procurement.
    Sec. 109.  None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
for military construction or family housing during the current fiscal 
year may be used to pay real property taxes in any foreign nation.
    Sec. 110.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to initiate a new installation overseas without prior notification 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
obligated for architect and engineer contracts estimated by the 
Government to exceed $500,000 for projects to be accomplished in Japan, 
in any North Atlantic Treaty Organization member country, or in 
countries bordering the Arabian Gulf, unless such contracts are awarded 
to United States firms or United States firms in joint venture with 
host nation firms.
    Sec. 112.  None of the funds made available in this title for 
military construction in the United States territories and possessions 
in the Pacific and on Kwajalein Atoll, or in countries bordering the 
Arabian Gulf, may be used to award any contract estimated by the 
Government to exceed $1,000,000 to a foreign contractor: Provided, That 
this section shall not be applicable to contract awards for which the 
lowest responsive and responsible bid of a United States contractor 
exceeds the lowest responsive and responsible bid of a foreign 
contractor by greater than 20 percent: Provided further, That this 
section shall not apply to contract awards for military construction on 
Kwajalein Atoll for which the lowest responsive and responsible bid is 
submitted by a Marshallese contractor.
    Sec. 113.  The Secretary of Defense shall inform the appropriate 
committees of both Houses of Congress, including the Committees on 
Appropriations, of plans and scope of any proposed military exercise 
involving United States personnel 30 days prior to its occurring, if 
amounts expended for construction, either temporary or permanent, are 
anticipated to exceed $100,000.
    Sec. 114.  Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction in prior years shall be available for construction 
authorized for each such military department by the authorizations 
enacted into law during the current session of Congress.
    Sec. 115.  For military construction or family housing projects 
that are being completed with funds otherwise expired or lapsed for 
obligation, expired or lapsed funds may be used to pay the cost of 
associated supervision, inspection, overhead, engineering and design on 
those projects and on subsequent claims, if any.
    Sec. 116.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
made available to a military department or defense agency for the 
construction of military projects may be obligated for a military 
construction project or contract, or for any portion of such a project 
or contract, at any time before the end of the fourth fiscal year after 
the fiscal year for which funds for such project were made available, 
if the funds obligated for such project: (1) are obligated from funds 
available for military construction projects; and (2) do not exceed the 
amount appropriated for such project, plus any amount by which the cost 
of such project is increased pursuant to law.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 117.  Subject to 30 days prior notification, or 14 days for a 
notification provided in an electronic medium pursuant to sections 480 
and 2883 of title 10, United States Code, to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, such additional amounts as 
may be determined by the Secretary of Defense may be transferred to: 
(1) the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund from 
amounts appropriated for construction in ``Family Housing'' accounts, 
to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the 
same period of time as amounts appropriated directly to the Fund; or 
(2) the Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing 
Improvement Fund from amounts appropriated for construction of military 
unaccompanied housing in ``Military Construction'' accounts, to be 
merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same 
period of time as amounts appropriated directly to the Fund: Provided, 
That appropriations made available to the Funds shall be available to 
cover the costs, as defined in section 502(5) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, of direct loans or loan guarantees issued by the 
Department of Defense pursuant to the provisions of subchapter IV of 
chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, pertaining to alternative 
means of acquiring and improving military family housing, military 
unaccompanied housing, and supporting facilities.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 118.  In addition to any other transfer authority available to 
the Department of Defense, amounts may be transferred from the 
Department of Defense Base Closure Account to the fund established by 
section 1013(d) of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan 
Development Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 3374) to pay for expenses associated 
with the Homeowners Assistance Program incurred under 42 U.S.C. 
3374(a)(1)(A). Any amounts transferred shall be merged with and be 
available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the 
fund to which transferred.
    Sec. 119.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available in this title for operation and maintenance of family housing 
shall be the exclusive source of funds for repair and maintenance of 
all family housing units, including general or flag officer quarters: 
Provided, That not more than $15,000 per unit may be spent annually for 
the maintenance and repair of any general or flag officer quarters 
without 30 days prior notification, or 14 days for a notification 
provided in an electronic medium pursuant to sections 480 and 2883 of 
title 10, United States Code, to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress, except that an after-the-fact notification 
shall be submitted if the limitation is exceeded solely due to costs 
associated with environmental remediation that could not be reasonably 
anticipated at the time of the budget submission.
    Sec. 120.  Amounts contained in the Ford Island Improvement Account 
established by subsection (h) of section 2814 of title 10, United 
States Code, are appropriated and shall be available until expended for 
the purposes specified in subsection (i)(1) of such section or until 
transferred pursuant to subsection (i)(3) of such section.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 121.  During the 5-year period after appropriations available 
in this Act to the Department of Defense for military construction and 
family housing operation and maintenance and construction have expired 
for obligation, upon a determination that such appropriations will not 
be necessary for the liquidation of obligations or for making 
authorized adjustments to such appropriations for obligations incurred 
during the period of availability of such appropriations, unobligated 
balances of such appropriations may be transferred into the 
appropriation ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Construction, Defense'', 
to be merged with and to be available for the same time period and for 
the same purposes as the appropriation to which transferred.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 122.  Amounts appropriated or otherwise made available in an 
account funded under the headings in this title may be transferred 
among projects and activities within the account in accordance with the 
reprogramming guidelines for military construction and family housing 
construction contained in Department of Defense Financial Management 
Regulation 7000.14-R, Volume 3, Chapter 7, of March 2011, as in effect 
on the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 123.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
obligated or expended for planning and design and construction of 
projects at Arlington National Cemetery.
    Sec. 124.  For an additional amount for the accounts and in the 
amounts specified, to remain available until September 30, 2024:
            ``Military Construction, Army'', $79,500,000;
            ``Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', 
        $546,800,000;
            ``Military Construction, Air Force'', $230,400,000;
            ``Military Construction, Army National Guard'', 
        $155,000,000;
            ``Military Construction, Air National Guard'', $57,000,000; 
        and
            ``Military Construction, Air Force Reserve'', $24,800,000:
 Provided, That such funds may only be obligated to carry out 
construction projects identified in the respective military 
department's unfunded priority list for fiscal year 2020 submitted to 
Congress: Provided further, That such projects are subject to 
authorization prior to obligation and expenditure of funds to carry out 
construction: Provided further, That not later than 30 days after 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the military department 
concerned, or his or her designee, shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an expenditure plan for funds 
provided under this section.

                         (rescission of funds)

    Sec. 125.  Of the unobligated balances available to the Department 
of Defense from prior appropriation Acts, the following funds are 
hereby rescinded from the following accounts in the amounts specified:
            ``Military Construction, Defense-Wide'', $45,055,000.
    Sec. 126.  For the purposes of this Act, the term ``congressional 
defense committees'' means the Committees on Armed Services of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate, the Subcommittee on Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs of the Committee on Appropriations of 
the Senate, and the Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans 
Affairs of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.
    Sec. 127.  All amounts appropriated to the ``Department of 
Defense--Military Construction, Army'', ``Department of Defense--
Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', ``Department of 
Defense--Military Construction, Air Force'', and ``Department of 
Defense--Military Construction, Defense-Wide'' accounts pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in a National Defense Authorization Act 
specified for fiscal year 2020 in the funding table in section 4601 of 
that Act shall be immediately available and allotted to contract for 
the full scope of authorized projects.

                                TITLE II

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                       compensation and pensions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the payment of compensation benefits to or on behalf of 
veterans and a pilot program for disability examinations as authorized 
by section 107 and chapters 11, 13, 18, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, 
United States Code; pension benefits to or on behalf of veterans as 
authorized by chapters 15, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United 
States Code; and burial benefits, the Reinstated Entitlement Program 
for Survivors, emergency and other officers' retirement pay, adjusted-
service credits and certificates, payment of premiums due on commercial 
life insurance policies guaranteed under the provisions of title IV of 
the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 541 et seq.) and 
for other benefits as authorized by sections 107, 1312, 1977, and 2106, 
and chapters 23, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code, 
$116,801,316,000, shall become available on October 1, 2020: Provided, 
That not to exceed $18,147,000 of the amount made available for fiscal 
year 2021 under this heading shall be reimbursed to ``General Operating 
Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'', and ``Information 
Technology Systems'' for necessary expenses in implementing the 
provisions of chapters 51, 53, and 55 of title 38, United States Code, 
the funding source for which is specifically provided as the 
``Compensation and Pensions'' appropriation: Provided further, That 
such sums as may be earned on an actual qualifying patient basis, shall 
be reimbursed to ``Medical Care Collections Fund'' to augment the 
funding of individual medical facilities for nursing home care provided 
to pensioners as authorized.

                         readjustment benefits

    For the payment of readjustment and rehabilitation benefits to or 
on behalf of veterans as authorized by chapters 21, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 
36, 39, 41, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code, 
$12,578,965,000, to remain available until expended and to become 
available on October 1, 2020: Provided, That expenses for 
rehabilitation program services and assistance which the Secretary is 
authorized to provide under subsection (a) of section 3104 of title 38, 
United States Code, other than under paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (11) 
of that subsection, shall be charged to this account.

                   veterans insurance and indemnities

    For military and naval insurance, national service life insurance, 
servicemen's indemnities, service-disabled veterans insurance, and 
veterans mortgage life insurance as authorized by chapters 19 and 21, 
title 38, United States Code, $17,620,000, to remain available until 
expended, which shall be in addition to funds previously appropriated 
under this heading that become available on October 1, 2019; and in 
addition, $129,224,000, to remain available until expended, which shall 
become available on October 1, 2020.

                 veterans housing benefit program fund

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the program, as authorized by subchapters I 
through III of chapter 37 of title 38, United States Code: Provided, 
That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: 
Provided further, That, during fiscal year 2020, within the resources 
available, not to exceed $500,000 in gross obligations for direct loans 
are authorized for specially adapted housing loans.
     In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
and guaranteed loan programs, $200,377,391.

            vocational rehabilitation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $57,729, as authorized by chapter 31 
of title 38, United States Code: Provided, That such costs, including 
the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That funds made 
available under this heading are available to subsidize gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
$2,008,232.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $401,880, which may be paid to the appropriation 
for ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration''.

          native american veteran housing loan program account

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program 
authorized by subchapter V of chapter 37 of title 38, United States 
Code, $1,186,000.

      general operating expenses, veterans benefits administration

    For necessary operating expenses of the Veterans Benefits 
Administration, not otherwise provided for, including hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, reimbursement of the General Services Administration 
for security guard services, and reimbursement of the Department of 
Defense for the cost of overseas employee mail, $3,025,000,000 (reduced 
by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) (increased by $1) (reduced by 
$1): Provided, That expenses for services and assistance authorized 
under paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (11) of section 3104(a) of title 
38, United States Code, that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
determines are necessary to enable entitled veterans: (1) to the 
maximum extent feasible, to become employable and to obtain and 
maintain suitable employment; or (2) to achieve maximum independence in 
daily living, shall be charged to this account: Provided further, That, 
of the funds made available under this heading, not to exceed 10 
percent shall remain available until September 30, 2021.

                     Veterans Health Administration

                            medical services

    For necessary expenses for furnishing, as authorized by law, 
inpatient and outpatient care and treatment to beneficiaries of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs and veterans described in section 
1705(a) of title 38, United States Code, including care and treatment 
in facilities not under the jurisdiction of the Department, and 
including medical supplies and equipment, bioengineering services, food 
services, and salaries and expenses of healthcare employees hired under 
title 38, United States Code, aid to State homes as authorized by 
section 1741 of title 38, United States Code, assistance and support 
services for caregivers as authorized by section 1720G of title 38, 
United States Code, loan repayments authorized by section 604 of the 
Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 (Public Law 
111-163; 124 Stat. 1174; 38 U.S.C. 7681 note), monthly assistance 
allowances authorized by section 322(d) of title 38, United States 
Code, grants authorized by section 521A of title 38, United States 
Code, and administrative expenses necessary to carry out sections 
322(d) and 521A of title 38, United States Code, and hospital care and 
medical services authorized by section 1787 of title 38, United States 
Code; $169,160,000 (increased by $1,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000) 
(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) (increased by 
$5,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) 
(increased by $1,500,000) (reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by 
$5,000,000) (increased by $3,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) 
(increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $1,700,000), which shall be in 
addition to funds previously appropriated under this heading that 
become available on October 1, 2019; and, in addition, $56,158,015,000 
(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by 
$1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000), plus reimbursements, shall 
become available on October 1, 2020, and shall remain available until 
September 30, 2021: Provided, That, of the amount made available on 
October 1, 2020, under this heading, $1,500,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2022: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall establish a priority for the provision of medical 
treatment for veterans who have service-connected disabilities, lower 
income, or have special needs: Provided further, That, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
give priority funding for the provision of basic medical benefits to 
veterans in enrollment priority groups 1 through 6: Provided further, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs may authorize the dispensing of prescription drugs 
from Veterans Health Administration facilities to enrolled veterans 
with privately written prescriptions based on requirements established 
by the Secretary: Provided further, That the implementation of the 
program described in the previous proviso shall incur no additional 
cost to the Department of Veterans Affairs: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that sufficient amounts 
appropriated under this heading for medical supplies and equipment are 
available for the acquisition of prosthetics designed specifically for 
female veterans: Provided further, That of the amount made available on 
October 1, 2019, under this heading, not less than $581,514,000 
(increased by $3,000,000) (reduced by $3,000,000) (increased by 
$1,700,000) shall be for gender-specific care for women as described in 
the report accompanying this Act.

                         medical community care

    For necessary expenses for furnishing health care to individuals 
pursuant to chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, at non-
Department facilities, $4,521,400,000 (reduced by $5,000,000) 
(increased by $1) (reduced by $1), which shall be in addition to funds 
previously appropriated under this heading that become available on 
October 1, 2019; and, in addition, $17,131,179,000, plus 
reimbursements, shall become available on October 1, 2020, and shall 
remain available until September 30, 2021: Provided, That, of the 
amount made available on October 1, 2020, under this heading, 
$2,000,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2022.

                     medical support and compliance

    For necessary expenses in the administration of the medical, 
hospital, nursing home, domiciliary, construction, supply, and research 
activities, as authorized by law; administrative expenses in support of 
capital policy activities; and administrative and legal expenses of the 
Department for collecting and recovering amounts owed the Department as 
authorized under chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, and the 
Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651 et seq.), 
$98,800,000, which shall be in addition to funds previously 
appropriated under this heading that become available on October 1, 
2019; and, in addition, $7,914,191,000, plus reimbursements, shall 
become available on October 1, 2020, and shall remain available until 
September 30, 2021: Provided, That, of the amount made available on 
October 1, 2020, under this heading, $150,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2022.

                           medical facilities

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of 
hospitals, nursing homes, domiciliary facilities, and other necessary 
facilities of the Veterans Health Administration; for administrative 
expenses in support of planning, design, project management, real 
property acquisition and disposition, construction, and renovation of 
any facility under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department; 
for oversight, engineering, and architectural activities not charged to 
project costs; for repairing, altering, improving, or providing 
facilities in the several hospitals and homes under the jurisdiction of 
the Department, not otherwise provided for, either by contract or by 
the hire of temporary employees and purchase of materials; for leases 
of facilities; and for laundry services; $20,000,000 (reduced by 
$10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000), 
which shall be in addition to funds previously appropriated under this 
heading that become available on October 1, 2019; and, in addition, 
$6,433,265,000, plus reimbursements, shall become available on October 
1, 2020, and shall remain available until September 30, 2021: Provided, 
That, of the amount made available on October 1, 2020, under this 
heading, $250,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2022.

                    medical and prosthetic research

    For necessary expenses in carrying out programs of medical and 
prosthetic research and development as authorized by chapter 73 of 
title 38, United States Code, $840,000,000, plus reimbursements, shall 
remain available until September 30, 2021.

                    National Cemetery Administration

    For necessary expenses of the National Cemetery Administration for 
operations and maintenance, not otherwise provided for, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor; cemeterial expenses as authorized by 
law; purchase of one passenger motor vehicle for use in cemeterial 
operations; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and repair, alteration or 
improvement of facilities under the jurisdiction of the National 
Cemetery Administration, $329,000,000, of which not to exceed 10 
percent shall remain available until September 30, 2021.

                      Departmental Administration

                         general administration

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary operating expenses of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, not otherwise provided for, including administrative expenses 
in support of Department-wide capital planning, management and policy 
activities, uniforms, or allowances therefor; not to exceed $25,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and reimbursement of the General Services Administration for 
security guard services, $369,200,000 (reduced by $1,000,000) 
(increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) (reduced by 
$6,500,000) (reduced by $1,500,000) (reduced by $1,700,000), of which 
not to exceed 10 percent shall remain available until September 30, 
2021: Provided, That funds provided under this heading may be 
transferred to ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration''.

                       board of veterans appeals

    For necessary operating expenses of the Board of Veterans Appeals, 
$182,000,000, of which not to exceed 10 percent shall remain available 
until September 30, 2021.

                     information technology systems

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for information technology systems and 
telecommunications support, including developmental information systems 
and operational information systems; for pay and associated costs; and 
for the capital asset acquisition of information technology systems, 
including management and related contractual costs of said 
acquisitions, including contractual costs associated with operations 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
$4,343,000,000 (reduced by $3,500,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) (reduced 
by $2,000,000) (reduced by $5,200,000), plus reimbursements: Provided, 
That $1,204,238,000 shall be for pay and associated costs, of which not 
to exceed 3 percent shall remain available until September 30, 2021: 
Provided further, That $2,737,482,000 (reduced by $3,500,000) (reduced 
by $1,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced by $5,200,000) shall be 
for operations and maintenance, of which not to exceed 5 percent shall 
remain available until September 30, 2021: Provided further, That 
$401,280,000 shall be for information technology systems development, 
and shall remain available until September 30, 2021: Provided further, 
That amounts made available for salaries and expenses, operations and 
maintenance, and information technology systems development may be 
transferred among the three subaccounts after the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs requests from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress the authority to make the transfer and an approval is 
issued: Provided further, That amounts made available for the 
``Information Technology Systems'' account for development may be 
transferred among projects or to newly defined projects: Provided 
further, That no project may be increased or decreased by more than 
$1,000,000 of cost prior to submitting a request to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress to make the transfer and an 
approval is issued, or absent a response, a period of 30 days has 
elapsed: Provided further, That the funds made available under this 
heading for information technology systems development shall be for the 
projects, and in the amounts, specified under this heading in the 
report accompanying this Act.

                   veterans electronic health record

    For activities related to implementation, preparation, development, 
interface, management, rollout, and maintenance of a Veterans 
Electronic Health Record system, including contractual costs associated 
with operations authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, and salaries and expenses of employees hired under titles 5 and 
38, United States Code, $1,603,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2022: Provided, That the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress quarterly reports detailing obligations, expenditures, and 
deployment implementation by facility: Provided further, That the funds 
provided in this account shall only be available to the Office of the 
Deputy Secretary, to be administered by that Office: Provided further, 
That none of the funds made available under this heading may be 
obligated in a manner inconsistent with deployment schedules provided 
to the Committees on Appropriations unless the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs provides notification to the Committees on Appropriations of 
such change and an approval is issued.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, to 
include information technology, in carrying out the provisions of the 
Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), $222,000,000 (increased 
by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000), of which not to exceed 10 
percent shall remain available until September 30, 2021.

                      construction, major projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities, including parking projects, under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs, or for any of the 
purposes set forth in sections 316, 2404, 2406 and chapter 81 of title 
38, United States Code, not otherwise provided for, including planning, 
architectural and engineering services, construction management 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated 
with equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of 
claims analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction 
costs, and site acquisition, where the estimated cost of a project is 
more than the amount set forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, 
United States Code, or where funds for a project were made available in 
a previous major project appropriation, $1,235,200,000, of which 
$1,036,600,000 (increased by $39,732,000) (reduced by $39,732,000) 
shall remain available until September 30, 2024, and of which 
$198,600,000 shall remain available until expended, of which 
$35,000,000 shall be available for seismic improvement projects and 
seismic program management activities, including for projects that 
would otherwise be funded by the Construction, Minor Projects, Medical 
Facilities or National Cemetery Administration accounts: Provided, That 
except for advance planning activities, including needs assessments 
which may or may not lead to capital investments, and other capital 
asset management related activities, including portfolio development 
and management activities, and investment strategy studies funded 
through the advance planning fund and the planning and design 
activities funded through the design fund, including needs assessments 
which may or may not lead to capital investments, and funds provided 
for the purchase, security, and maintenance of land for the National 
Cemetery Administration through the land acquisition line item, none of 
the funds made available under this heading shall be used for any 
project that has not been notified to Congress through the budgetary 
process or that has not been approved by the Congress through statute, 
joint resolution, or in the explanatory statement accompanying such Act 
and presented to the President at the time of enrollment: Provided 
further, That such sums as may be necessary shall be available to 
reimburse the ``General Administration'' account for payment of 
salaries and expenses of all Office of Construction and Facilities 
Management employees to support the full range of capital 
infrastructure services provided, including minor construction and 
leasing services:  Provided further, That funds made available under 
this heading for fiscal year 2020, for each approved project shall be 
obligated: (1) by the awarding of a construction documents contract by 
September 30, 2020; and (2) by the awarding of a construction contract 
by September 30, 2021: Provided further, That the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall promptly submit to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress a written report on any approved major 
construction project for which obligations are not incurred within the 
time limitations established above: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding the requirements of section 8104(a) of title 38, United 
States Code, amounts made available under this heading for seismic 
improvement projects and seismic program management activities shall be 
available for the completion of both new and existing seismic projects 
of the Department.

                      construction, minor projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities, including parking projects, under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs, including planning and 
assessments of needs which may lead to capital investments, 
architectural and engineering services, maintenance or guarantee period 
services costs associated with equipment guarantees provided under the 
project, services of claims analysts, offsite utility and storm 
drainage system construction costs, and site acquisition, or for any of 
the purposes set forth in sections 316, 2404, 2406 and chapter 81 of 
title 38, United States Code, not otherwise provided for, where the 
estimated cost of a project is equal to or less than the amount set 
forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, United States Code, 
$421,117,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, along with 
unobligated balances of previous ``Construction, Minor Projects'' 
appropriations which are hereby made available for any project where 
the estimated cost is equal to or less than the amount set forth in 
such section: Provided, That funds made available under this heading 
shall be for: (1) repairs to any of the nonmedical facilities under the 
jurisdiction or for the use of the Department which are necessary 
because of loss or damage caused by any natural disaster or 
catastrophe; and (2) temporary measures necessary to prevent or to 
minimize further loss by such causes.

       grants for construction of state extended care facilities

    For grants to assist States to acquire or construct State nursing 
home and domiciliary facilities and to remodel, modify, or alter 
existing hospital, nursing home, and domiciliary facilities in State 
homes, for furnishing care to veterans as authorized by sections 8131 
through 8137 of title 38, United States Code, $150,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

             grants for construction of veterans cemeteries

    For grants to assist States and tribal organizations in 
establishing, expanding, or improving veterans cemeteries as authorized 
by section 2408 of title 38, United States Code, $45,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                       Administrative Provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 201.  Any appropriation for fiscal year 2020 for 
``Compensation and Pensions'', ``Readjustment Benefits'', and 
``Veterans Insurance and Indemnities'' may be transferred as necessary 
to any other of the mentioned appropriations: Provided, That, before a 
transfer may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
request from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress the authority to make the transfer and such Committees issue 
an approval, or absent a response, a period of 30 days has elapsed.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 202.  Amounts made available for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2020, in this or any other Act, under the 
``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'', and ``Medical Facilities'' accounts may be transferred 
among the accounts: Provided, That any transfers among the ``Medical 
Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', and ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'' accounts of 1 percent or less of the total amount 
appropriated to the account in this or any other Act may take place 
subject to notification from the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the amount 
and purpose of the transfer: Provided further, That any transfers among 
the ``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', and ``Medical 
Support and Compliance'' accounts in excess of 1 percent, or exceeding 
the cumulative 1 percent for the fiscal year, may take place only after 
the Secretary requests from the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress the authority to make the transfer and an approval 
is issued: Provided further, That any transfers to or from the 
``Medical Facilities'' account may take place only after the Secretary 
requests from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress the authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued.
    Sec. 203.  Appropriations available in this title for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for services authorized by section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code; hire of passenger motor vehicles; lease of 
a facility or land or both; and uniforms or allowances therefore, as 
authorized by sections 5901 through 5902 of title 5, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 204.  No appropriations in this title (except the 
appropriations for ``Construction, Major Projects'', and 
``Construction, Minor Projects'') shall be available for the purchase 
of any site for or toward the construction of any new hospital or home.
    Sec. 205.  No appropriations in this title shall be available for 
hospitalization or examination of any persons (except beneficiaries 
entitled to such hospitalization or examination under the laws 
providing such benefits to veterans, and persons receiving such 
treatment under sections 7901 through 7904 of title 5, United States 
Code, or the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)), unless reimbursement of the 
cost of such hospitalization or examination is made to the ``Medical 
Services'' account at such rates as may be fixed by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs.
    Sec. 206.  Appropriations available in this title for 
``Compensation and Pensions'', ``Readjustment Benefits'', and 
``Veterans Insurance and Indemnities'' shall be available for payment 
of prior year accrued obligations required to be recorded by law 
against the corresponding prior year accounts within the last quarter 
of fiscal year 2019.
    Sec. 207.  Appropriations available in this title shall be 
available to pay prior year obligations of corresponding prior year 
appropriations accounts resulting from sections 3328(a), 3334, and 
3712(a) of title 31, United States Code, except that if such 
obligations are from trust fund accounts they shall be payable only 
from ``Compensation and Pensions''.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 208.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during 
fiscal year 2020, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, from the 
National Service Life Insurance Fund under section 1920 of title 38, 
United States Code, the Veterans' Special Life Insurance Fund under 
section 1923 of title 38, United States Code, and the United States 
Government Life Insurance Fund under section 1955 of title 38, United 
States Code, reimburse the ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans 
Benefits Administration'' and ``Information Technology Systems'' 
accounts for the cost of administration of the insurance programs 
financed through those accounts: Provided, That reimbursement shall be 
made only from the surplus earnings accumulated in such an insurance 
program during fiscal year 2020 that are available for dividends in 
that program after claims have been paid and actuarially determined 
reserves have been set aside: Provided further, That if the cost of 
administration of such an insurance program exceeds the amount of 
surplus earnings accumulated in that program, reimbursement shall be 
made only to the extent of such surplus earnings: Provided further, 
That the Secretary shall determine the cost of administration for 
fiscal year 2020 which is properly allocable to the provision of each 
such insurance program and to the provision of any total disability 
income insurance included in that insurance program.
    Sec. 209.  Amounts deducted from enhanced-use lease proceeds to 
reimburse an account for expenses incurred by that account during a 
prior fiscal year for providing enhanced-use lease services, may be 
obligated during the fiscal year in which the proceeds are received.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 210.  Funds available in this title or funds for salaries and 
other administrative expenses shall also be available to reimburse the 
Office of Resolution Management, the Office of Employment 
Discrimination Complaint Adjudication, and the Office of Diversity and 
Inclusion for all services provided at rates which will recover actual 
costs but not to exceed $57,263,000 for the Office of Resolution 
Management, $6,000,000 for the Office of Employment Discrimination 
Complaint Adjudication, and $4,628,000 for the Office of Diversity and 
Inclusion: Provided, That payments may be made in advance for services 
to be furnished based on estimated costs: Provided further, That 
amounts received shall be credited to the ``General Administration'' 
and ``Information Technology Systems'' accounts for use by the office 
that provided the service.
    Sec. 211.  No funds of the Department of Veterans Affairs shall be 
available for hospital care, nursing home care, or medical services 
provided to any person under chapter 17 of title 38, United States 
Code, for a non-service-connected disability described in section 
1729(a)(2) of such title, unless that person has disclosed to the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in such form as the Secretary may 
require, current, accurate third-party reimbursement information for 
purposes of section 1729 of such title: Provided, That the Secretary 
may recover, in the same manner as any other debt due the United 
States, the reasonable charges for such care or services from any 
person who does not make such disclosure as required: Provided further, 
That any amounts so recovered for care or services provided in a prior 
fiscal year may be obligated by the Secretary during the fiscal year in 
which amounts are received.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 212.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, proceeds or 
revenues derived from enhanced-use leasing activities (including 
disposal) may be deposited into the ``Construction, Major Projects'' 
and ``Construction, Minor Projects'' accounts and be used for 
construction (including site acquisition and disposition), alterations, 
and improvements of any medical facility under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs. Such sums as realized 
are in addition to the amount provided for in ``Construction, Major 
Projects'' and ``Construction, Minor Projects''.
    Sec. 213.  Amounts made available under ``Medical Services'' are 
available--
            (1) for furnishing recreational facilities, supplies, and 
        equipment; and
            (2) for funeral expenses, burial expenses, and other 
        expenses incidental to funerals and burials for beneficiaries 
        receiving care in the Department.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 214.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical Care 
Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, United States 
Code, may be transferred to the ``Medical Services'' and ``Medical 
Community Care'' accounts to remain available until expended for the 
purposes of these accounts.
    Sec. 215.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may enter into 
agreements with Federally Qualified Health Centers in the State of 
Alaska and Indian tribes and tribal organizations which are party to 
the Alaska Native Health Compact with the Indian Health Service, to 
provide healthcare, including behavioral health and dental care, to 
veterans in rural Alaska. The Secretary shall require participating 
veterans and facilities to comply with all appropriate rules and 
regulations, as established by the Secretary. The term ``rural Alaska'' 
shall mean those lands which are not within the boundaries of the 
municipality of Anchorage or the Fairbanks North Star Borough.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 216.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs Capital Asset Fund pursuant to section 8118 of title 
38, United States Code, may be transferred to the ``Construction, Major 
Projects'' and ``Construction, Minor Projects'' accounts, to remain 
available until expended for the purposes of these accounts.
    Sec. 217.  Not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal 
quarter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a report on the 
financial status of the Department of Veterans Affairs for the 
preceding quarter: Provided, That, at a minimum, the report shall 
include the direction contained in the paragraph entitled ``Quarterly 
reporting'', under the heading ``General Administration'' in the joint 
explanatory statement accompanying Public Law 114-223.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 218.  Amounts made available under the ``Medical Services'', 
``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and Compliance'', 
``Medical Facilities'', ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration'', ``Board of Veterans Appeals'', ``General 
Administration'', and ``National Cemetery Administration'' accounts for 
fiscal year 2020 may be transferred to or from the ``Information 
Technology Systems'' account: Provided, That such transfers may not 
result in a more than 10 percent aggregate increase in the total amount 
made available by this Act for the ``Information Technology Systems'' 
account: Provided further, That, before a transfer may take place, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall request from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority to make the 
transfer and an approval is issued.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 219.  Of the amounts appropriated to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2020 for ``Medical Services'', 
``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and Compliance'', 
``Medical Facilities'', ``Construction, Minor Projects'', and 
``Information Technology Systems'', up to $314,409,000, plus 
reimbursements, may be transferred to the Joint Department of Defense--
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, 
established by section 1704 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2571) and may be 
used for operation of the facilities designated as combined Federal 
medical facilities as described by section 706 of the Duncan Hunter 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
110-417; 122 Stat. 4500): Provided, That additional funds may be 
transferred from accounts designated in this section to the Joint 
Department of Defense--Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
Demonstration Fund upon written notification by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress: Provided further, That section 220 of title II of division C 
of Public Law 115-244 is repealed.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 220.  Of the amounts appropriated to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs which become available on October 1, 2020, for 
``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'', and ``Medical Facilities'', up to $322,931,000, plus 
reimbursements, may be transferred to the Joint Department of Defense--
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, 
established by section 1704 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 3571) and may be 
used for operation of the facilities designated as combined Federal 
medical facilities as described by section 706 of the Duncan Hunter 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
110-417; 122 Stat. 4500): Provided, That additional funds may be 
transferred from accounts designated in this section to the Joint 
Department of Defense--Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
Demonstration Fund upon written notification by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 221.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical Care 
Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, United States 
Code, for healthcare provided at facilities designated as combined 
Federal medical facilities as described by section 706 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500) shall also be available: (1) for transfer 
to the Joint Department of Defense--Department of Veterans Affairs 
Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, established by section 1704 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84; 123 Stat. 3571); and (2) for operations of the facilities 
designated as combined Federal medical facilities as described by 
section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500): Provided, That, 
notwithstanding section 1704(b)(3) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 
2573), amounts transferred to the Joint Department of Defense--
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund 
shall remain available until expended.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 222.  Of the amounts available in this title for ``Medical 
Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'', and ``Medical Facilities'', a minimum of $15,000,000 
shall be transferred to the DOD-VA Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund, 
as authorized by section 8111(d) of title 38, United States Code, to 
remain available until expended, for any purpose authorized by section 
8111 of title 38, United States Code.
    Sec. 223.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of all bid 
savings in a major construction project that total at least $5,000,000, 
or 5 percent of the programmed amount of the project, whichever is 
less: Provided, That such notification shall occur within 14 days of a 
contract identifying the programmed amount: Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress 14 days prior to the obligation of such bid savings and 
shall describe the anticipated use of such savings.
    Sec. 224.  None of the funds made available for ``Construction, 
Major Projects'' may be used for a project in excess of the scope 
specified for that project in the original justification data provided 
to the Congress as part of the request for appropriations unless the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs receives approval from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 225.  Not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal 
quarter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a quarterly 
report containing performance measures and data from each Veterans 
Benefits Administration Regional Office: Provided, That, at a minimum, 
the report shall include the direction contained in the section 
entitled ``Disability claims backlog'', under the heading ``General 
Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' in the joint 
explanatory statement accompanying Public Law 114-223: Provided 
further, That the report shall also include information on the number 
of appeals pending at the Veterans Benefits Administration as well as 
the Board of Veterans Appeals on a quarterly basis.
    Sec. 226.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide written 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress 15 days prior to organizational changes which result in the 
transfer of 25 or more full-time equivalents from one organizational 
unit of the Department of Veterans Affairs to another.
    Sec. 227.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide on a 
quarterly basis to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress notification of any single national outreach and awareness 
marketing campaign in which obligations exceed $1,000,000.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 228.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, upon determination 
that such action is necessary to address needs of the Veterans Health 
Administration, may transfer to the ``Medical Services'' account any 
discretionary appropriations made available for fiscal year 2020 in 
this title (except appropriations made to the ``General Operating 
Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' account) or any 
discretionary unobligated balances within the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, including those appropriated for fiscal year 2020, that were 
provided in advance by appropriations Acts: Provided, That transfers 
shall be made only with the approval of the Office of Management and 
Budget: Provided further, That the transfer authority provided in this 
section is in addition to any other transfer authority provided by law: 
Provided further, That no amounts may be transferred from amounts that 
were designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided further, That such 
authority to transfer may not be used unless for higher priority items, 
based on emergent healthcare requirements, than those for which 
originally appropriated and in no case where the item for which funds 
are requested has been denied by Congress: Provided further, That, upon 
determination that all or part of the funds transferred from an 
appropriation are not necessary, such amounts may be transferred back 
to that appropriation and shall be available for the same purposes as 
originally appropriated: Provided further, That before a transfer may 
take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall request from the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority 
to make the transfer and receive approval of that request.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 229.  Amounts made available for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2020, under the ``Board of Veterans Appeals'' 
and the ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration'' accounts may be transferred between such accounts: 
Provided, That before a transfer may take place, the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall request from the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress the authority to make the transfer and receive 
approval of that request.
    Sec. 230.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may not reprogram 
funds among major construction projects or programs if such instance of 
reprogramming will exceed $7,000,000, unless such reprogramming is 
approved by the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.
    Sec. 231. (a) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that 
the toll-free suicide hotline under section 1720F(h) of title 38, 
United States Code--
            (1) provides to individuals who contact the hotline 
        immediate assistance from a trained professional; and
            (2) adheres to all requirements of the American Association 
        of Suicidology.
    (b)(1) None of the funds made available by this Act may be used to 
enforce or otherwise carry out any Executive action that prohibits the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs from appointing an individual to occupy a 
vacant civil service position, or establishing a new civil service 
position, at the Department of Veterans Affairs with respect to such a 
position relating to the hotline specified in subsection (a).
    (2) In this subsection--
            (A) the term ``civil service'' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 2101(1) of title 5, United States Code; and
            (B) the term ``Executive action'' includes--
                    (i) any Executive order, presidential memorandum, 
                or other action by the President; and
                    (ii) any agency policy, order, or other directive.
    Sec. 232.  None of the funds in this or any other Act may be used 
to close Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) hospitals, domiciliaries, 
or clinics, conduct an environmental assessment, or to diminish 
healthcare services at existing Veterans Health Administration medical 
facilities located in Veterans Integrated Service Network 23 as part of 
a planned realignment of VA services until the Secretary provides to 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a report 
including the following elements--
            (1) a national realignment strategy that includes a 
        detailed description of realignment plans within each Veterans 
        Integrated Services Network (VISN), including an updated Long 
        Range Capital Plan to implement realignment requirements;
            (2) an explanation of the process by which those plans were 
        developed and coordinated within each VISN;
            (3) a cost versus benefit analysis of each planned 
        realignment, including the cost of replacing Veterans Health 
        Administration services with contract care or other outsourced 
        services;
            (4) an analysis of how any such planned realignment of 
        services will impact access to care for veterans living in 
        rural or highly rural areas, including travel distances and 
        transportation costs to access a VA medical facility and 
        availability of local specialty and primary care;
            (5) an inventory of VA buildings with historic designation 
        and the methodology used to determine the buildings' condition 
        and utilization;
            (6) a description of how any realignment will be consistent 
        with requirements under the National Historic Preservation Act; 
        and
            (7) consideration given for reuse of historic buildings 
        within newly identified realignment requirements: Provided, 
        That, this provision shall not apply to capital projects in 
        VISN 23, or any other VISN, which have been authorized or 
        approved by Congress.
    Sec. 233.  Effective during the period beginning on October 1, 2018 
and ending on January 1, 2024, none of the funds made available to the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs by this or any other Act may be obligated 
or expended in contravention of the ``Veterans Health Administration 
Clinical Preventive Services Guidance Statement on the Veterans Health 
Administration's Screening for Breast Cancer Guidance'' published on 
May 10, 2017, as issued by the Veterans Health Administration National 
Center for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention.
    Sec. 234. (a) Chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 1720I the following new section:
``Sec. 1720J. Provision of assisted reproductive technology or adoption 
              reimbursements for certain disabled veterans
    ``(a) Provision of Services.--Subject to the availability of 
appropriations, the Secretary may provide--
            ``(1) fertility counseling and treatment using assisted 
        reproductive technology to a covered veteran or the spouse of a 
        covered veteran; or
            ``(2) adoption reimbursement to a covered veteran.
    ``(b) Limitations.--Amounts made available for the purposes 
specified in subsection (a) are subject to the requirements for funds 
contained in section 508 of division H of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2017 (Public Law 115-31).
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `adoption reimbursement' means reimbursement 
        for the adoption-related expenses for an adoption that is 
        finalized after the date of the enactment of this section under 
        the same terms as apply under the adoption reimbursement 
        program of the Department of Defense, as authorized in 
        Department of Defense Instruction 1341.09, including the 
        reimbursement limits and requirements set forth in such 
        instruction, as in effect on the date of the enactment of this 
        section.
            ``(2) The term `assisted reproductive technology' means 
        benefits relating to reproductive assistance provided to a 
        member of the Armed Forces who incurs a serious injury or 
        illness on active duty pursuant to section 1074(c)(4)(A) of 
        title 10, as described in the memorandum on the subject of 
        `Policy for Assisted Reproductive Services for the Benefit of 
        Seriously or Severely Ill/Injured (Category II or III) Active 
        Duty Service Members' issued by the Assistant Secretary of 
        Defense for Health Affairs on April 3, 2012, and the guidance 
        issued to implement such policy, as in effect on the date of 
        the enactment of this section, including any limitations on the 
        amount of such benefits available to such a member, except 
        that--
                    ``(A) the periods regarding embryo cryopreservation 
                and storage set forth in part III(G) and in part IV(H) 
                of such memorandum shall not apply; and
                    ``(B) such term includes embryo cryopreservation 
                and storage without limitation on the duration of such 
                cryopreservation and storage.
            ``(3) The term `covered veteran' means a veteran who has a 
        service-connected disability that results in the inability of 
        the veteran to procreate without the use of fertility 
        treatment.''.
    (b) The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1720I the 
following new item:

``1720J. Provision of assisted reproductive technology or adoption 
                            reimbursements for certain disabled 
                            veterans.''.
    Sec. 235.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act or any other Act for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs may be used in a manner that is inconsistent with: (1) section 
842 of the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the 
Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-115; 119 Stat. 2506); or (2) 
section 8110(a)(5) of title 38, United States Code.
    Sec. 236.  Section 842 of Public Law 109-115 shall not apply to 
conversion of an activity or function of the Veterans Health 
Administration, Veterans Benefits Administration, or National Cemetery 
Administration to contractor performance by a business concern that is 
at least 51 percent owned by one or more Indian tribes as defined in 
section 5304(e) of title 25, United States Code, or one or more Native 
Hawaiian Organizations as defined in section 637(a)(15) of title 15, 
United States Code.
    Sec. 237. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and 
the Secretary of Labor, shall discontinue using Social Security account 
numbers to identify individuals in all information systems of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs as follows:
            (1) For all veterans submitting to the Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs new claims for benefits under laws 
        administered by the Secretary, not later than 5 years after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) For all individuals not described in paragraph (1), not 
        later than 8 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may use a Social Security 
account number to identify an individual in an information system of 
the Department of Veterans Affairs only if the use of such number is 
required to obtain information the Secretary requires from an 
information system that is not under the jurisdiction of the Secretary.
    Sec. 238.  For funds provided to the Department of Veterans Affairs 
for each of fiscal year 2020 and 2021 for ``Medical Services'', section 
239 of Division A of Public Law 114-223 shall apply.
    Sec. 239.  None of the funds appropriated in this or prior 
appropriations Acts or otherwise made available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs may be used to transfer any amounts from the Filipino 
Veterans Equity Compensation Fund to any other account within the 
Department of Veterans Affairs.
    Sec. 240.  Of the funds provided to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for each of fiscal year 2020 and fiscal year 2021 for ``Medical 
Services'', funds may be used in each year to carry out and expand the 
child care program authorized by section 205 of Public Law 111-163, 
notwithstanding subsection (e) of such section.
    Sec. 241.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this title may be used by the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to enter into an agreement related to resolving a dispute or 
claim with an individual that would restrict in any way the individual 
from speaking to members of Congress or their staff on any topic not 
otherwise prohibited from disclosure by Federal law or required by 
Executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense 
or the conduct of foreign affairs.
    Sec. 242.  For funds provided to the Department of Veterans Affairs 
for each of fiscal year 2020 and 2021, section 258 of division A of 
Public Law 114-223 shall apply.
    Sec. 243.  For an additional amount for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, $1,000,000,000 to remain available until expended, for 
infrastructure improvements, including new construction, and in 
addition to amounts otherwise made available in this Act for such 
purpose, of which:
            (1) $850,000,000 shall be available for seismic improvement 
        projects and seismic program management activities, including 
        projects that would otherwise be funded by the Construction, 
        Major Projects, the Construction, Minor Projects, Medical 
        Facilities, or National Cemetery Administration accounts.
            (2) $150,000,000 shall be for ``Departmental 
        Administration--Construction, Minor Projects'':
 Provided, That the additional amounts appropriated under this section 
for the purpose of minor construction may be used to carry out critical 
life-safety projects identified in the Department's annual facility 
condition assessments; sustainment projects; modernization projects; 
infrastructure repair; renovations at existing Veterans Health 
Administration medical centers and outpatient clinics; and projects 
included in the Strategic Capital Investment Process plan: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding the requirements of section 8104(a) of 
title 38, United States Code, amounts made available under this heading 
for seismic improvement projects and seismic program management 
activities shall be available for the completion of both new and 
existing projects of the Department: Provided further, That the 
additional amounts appropriated under this section may not be obligated 
or expended until the Secretary of Veterans Affairs submits to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, and such 
Committees approve, a detailed expenditure plan, including project 
descriptions and costs, for any minor construction, major construction, 
or seismic improvement project being funded with the additional amounts 
made available in this administrative provision.
    Sec. 244. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to deny an Inspector General funded 
under this Act timely access to any records, documents, or other 
materials available to the department or agency of the United States 
Government over which such Inspector General has responsibilities under 
the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), or to prevent or 
impede the access of such Inspector General to such records, documents, 
or other materials, under any provision of law, except a provision of 
law that expressly refers to such Inspector General and expressly 
limits the right of access of such Inspector General.
    (b) A department or agency covered by this section shall provide 
its Inspector General access to all records, documents, and other 
materials in a timely manner.
    (c) Each Inspector General covered by this section shall ensure 
compliance with statutory limitations on disclosure relevant to the 
information provided by the department or agency over which that 
Inspector General has responsibilities under the Inspector General Act 
of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
    (d) Each Inspector General covered by this section shall report to 
the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives within 5 calendar days 
of any failure by any department or agency covered by this section to 
comply with this section.
    Sec. 245.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in a manner that would increase wait times for veterans who seek care 
at medical facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
    Sec. 246.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act to the Veterans Health Administration may be used 
in fiscal year 2020 to convert any program which received specific 
purpose funds in fiscal year 2019 to a general purpose funded program 
unless the Secretary of Veterans Affairs submits written notification 
of any such proposal to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress at least thirty days prior to any such action and an 
approval is issued by the Committees.
    Sec. 247. (a) Except as provided by subsection (b), none of the 
funds made available by this Act may be used by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to purchase, breed, transport, house, feed, maintain, 
dispose of, or experiment on, dogs as part of the conduct of any study 
including an assignment of pain category D or E, as defined by the Pain 
and Distress Categories of the Department of Agriculture (or such 
successor categories developed pursuant to section 13 of the Animal 
Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2143)).
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to training programs or studies 
of service dogs described in section 1714 of title 38, United States 
Code, or section 17.148 of title 38, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 248.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to close the community based 
outpatient clinic located in Bainbridge, New York, until the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs submits to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate a market area assessment.
    Sec. 249. (a) Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than once every five-
year period thereafter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall update 
the handbook of the Department of Veterans Affairs titled ``Planning 
and Activating Community Based Outpatient Clinics'', or a successor 
handbook, to reflect current policies, best practices, and clarify the 
roles and responsibilities of the personnel of the Department involved 
in the leasing projects of the Department.
    (b) The Secretary shall ensure that the handbook specified in 
subsection (a) defines ``community based outpatient clinic'' in the 
same manner as such term is defined in the Veterans Health 
Administration Site Tracking database (commonly known as ``VAST'') as 
of the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) The Secretary shall ensure that the Veterans Health 
Administration incorporates the best practices contained in the 
handbook specified in subsection (a) in conducting oversight of the 
medical centers of the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Veterans 
Integrated Service Network.
    (d) Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary shall provide guidance and training to employees of 
the Veterans Health Administration for the use of the handbook 
specified in subsection (a). The Secretary shall update such guidance 
and training together with each update of such handbook.

                         (rescission of funds)

    Sec. 250.  Of the funds made available for fiscal year 2019 under 
the heading ``Department of Veterans Affairs--Departmental 
Administration--Veterans Electronic Health Record'' in title II of 
division C of the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 2019 (Public Law 
115-244), $70,000,000 is hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 251.  Section 252 of the Military Construction, Veterans 
Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2018 (division J of 
Public Law 115-141; 132 Stat. 825; 38 U.S.C. 1701 note) is amended by 
striking ``The Secretary may carry out a 2-year pilot program'' and 
inserting ``During the period preceding October 1, 2022, the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs may carry out a 2-year pilot program''.

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                  American Battle Monuments Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, including the acquisition of land or 
interest in land in foreign countries; purchases and repair of uniforms 
for caretakers of national cemeteries and monuments outside of the 
United States and its territories and possessions; rent of office and 
garage space in foreign countries; purchase (one-for-one replacement 
basis only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $15,000 
for official reception and representation expenses; and insurance of 
official motor vehicles in foreign countries, when required by law of 
such countries, $104,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                 foreign currency fluctuations account

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended, for purposes authorized by section 2109 of 
title 36, United States Code.

           United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation of the United States Court 
of Appeals for Veterans Claims as authorized by sections 7251 through 
7298 of title 38, United States Code, $35,400,000: Provided, That 
$2,698,997 shall be available for the purpose of providing financial 
assistance as described and in accordance with the process and 
reporting procedures set forth under this heading in Public Law 102-
229.

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                       Cemeterial Expenses, Army

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for maintenance, operation, and improvement 
of Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' and Airmen's Home National 
Cemetery, including the purchase or lease of passenger motor vehicles 
for replacement on a one-for-one basis only, and not to exceed $2,000 
for official reception and representation expenses, $80,800,000, of 
which not to exceed $15,000,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2022. In addition, such sums as may be necessary for parking 
maintenance, repairs and replacement, to be derived from the ``Lease of 
Department of Defense Real Property for Defense Agencies'' account.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses for planning and design and construction at 
Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' and Airmen's Home National 
Cemetery, $131,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
planning and design and construction associated with the Southern 
Expansion project at Arlington National Cemetery.

                armed forces retirement home trust fund

    For expenses necessary for the Armed Forces Retirement Home to 
operate and maintain the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Washington, 
District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Gulfport, 
Mississippi, to be paid from funds available in the Armed Forces 
Retirement Home Trust Fund, $70,300,000, of which $5,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended for construction and renovation of the 
physical plants at the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Washington, 
District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Gulfport, 
Mississippi: Provided, That of the amounts made available under this 
heading from funds available in the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust 
Fund, $22,000,000 shall be paid from the general fund of the Treasury 
to the Trust Fund.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 301.  Amounts deposited into the special account established 
under 10 U.S.C. 4727 are appropriated and shall be available until 
expended to support activities at the Army National Military 
Cemeteries.

                                TITLE IV

                    OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                      Military Construction, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Army'', 
$156,860,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, for 
projects outside of the United States: Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Navy and 
Marine Corps'', $281,576,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2024, for projects outside of the United States: Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air Force'' 
$436,564,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, for 
projects outside of the United States: Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                  Military Construction, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Defense-
Wide'', $46,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, for 
projects outside of the United States: Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 401.  Each amount designated in this Act by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 shall be available only if the President 
subsequently so designates all such amounts and transmits such 
designations to the Congress.

                                TITLE V

                        NATURAL DISASTER RELIEF

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Navy and 
Marine Corps'', $1,210,948,000: Provided, That such amounts may be 
obligated and expended to carry out planning and design and military 
construction projects authorized by law: Provided further, That such 
amounts are designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air Force'', 
$1,035,752,000: Provided, That such amounts may be obligated and 
expended to carry out planning and design and military construction 
projects authorized by law: Provided further, That such amounts are 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Army National 
Guard'', $50,000,000: Provided, That such amounts may be obligated and 
expended to carry out planning and design and military construction 
projects authorized by law: Provided further, That such amounts are 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                  Military Construction, Army Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Army 
Reserve'', $3,300,000: Provided, That such amounts may be obligated and 
expended to carry out planning and design and military construction 
projects authorized by law: Provided further, That such amounts are 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 501.  Each amount designated in this title as being for an 
emergency requirement as pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall be 
available only if the President subsequently so designates all such 
amounts and transmits such amounts and transmits such designations to 
the Congress: Provided, That none of the funds shall be available for 
obligation until the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate receive a master plan for the 
installations and a form 1391 for each specific project: Provided 
further, That not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act, the 
Service Secretaries or their designee, shall submit to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a 
detailed expenditure plan for funds provided under this heading.

                                TITLE VI

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 601.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 602.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for any program, project, or activity, when it is made known to the 
Federal entity or official to which the funds are made available that 
the program, project, or activity is not in compliance with any Federal 
law relating to risk assessment, the protection of private property 
rights, or unfunded mandates.
    Sec. 603.  All departments and agencies funded under this Act are 
encouraged, within the limits of the existing statutory authorities and 
funding, to expand their use of ``E-Commerce'' technologies and 
procedures in the conduct of their business practices and public 
service activities.
    Sec. 604.  Unless stated otherwise, all reports and notifications 
required by this Act shall be submitted to the Subcommittee on Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related 
Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
    Sec. 605.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 606.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for a project or program named for an individual serving as a Member, 
Delegate, or Resident Commissioner of the United States House of 
Representatives.
    Sec. 607. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in this 
Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on the public Web 
site of that agency any report required to be submitted by the Congress 
in this or any other Act, upon the determination by the head of the 
agency that it shall serve the national interest.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
        security; or
            (2) the report contains confidential or proprietary 
        information.
    (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so only 
after such report has been made available to the requesting Committee 
or Committees of Congress for no less than 45 days.
    Sec. 608. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.
    Sec. 609.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by an agency of the executive branch to pay for first-class travel by 
an employee of the agency in contravention of sections 301-10.122 
through 301-10.124 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 610.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to execute a contract for goods or services, including construction 
services, where the contractor has not complied with Executive Order 
No. 12989.
    Sec. 611.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Department of Defense or the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
lease or purchase new light duty vehicles for any executive fleet, or 
for an agency's fleet inventory, except in accordance with Presidential 
Memorandum--Federal Fleet Performance, dated May 24, 2011.
    Sec. 612.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated in this or any other Act for a military construction 
project, as defined by section 2801 of title 10, United States Code, 
for any of fiscal years 2015 through 2019 or for fiscal year 2020 may 
be obligated, expended, or used to design, construct, or carry out a 
project to construct a wall, barrier, fence, or road along the Southern 
border of the United States or a road to provide access to a wall, 
barrier, or fence constructed along the Southern border of the United 
States.

            additional requirements for child care providers

    Sec. 613.  (a) Subject to subsection (b), none of the funds 
appropriated by this bill may be provided to a child care center, child 
care agency, or child care provider that employs an individual who has 
been convicted of--
            (1) A sex offense;
            (2) An offense involving a child victim; or
            (3) A violent crime involving any of the following:
                    (A) Elder abuse.
                    (B) Gun Violence.
                    (C) Domestic Violence.
                    (D) Terrorism.
    (b) Payment may be made under this section to a child care center, 
child care agency, or child care provider if such child care center, 
child care agency, or child care provider has suspended the individual 
described in subsection (a) from having any contact with children while 
on the job until the case is resolved.
    Sec. 614.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to replace or diminish the quality of care provided by the TRICARE 
program (as defined in Section 1072 of Title 10 of the United States 
Code).
    Sec. 615.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as referring 
only to the provisions of this division.
    Sec. 616.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this Act'' 
contained in this division shall be treated as a reference to House 
Report 116-63. The effect of such Report shall be limited to this 
division and shall apply for purposes of determining the allocation of 
funds provided by, and the implementation of, this division.
    Sec. 617.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to carry out a new or additional Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) 
Round.
    Sec. 618.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 101(e)(8) of title 10, United States Code.
    Sec. 619.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of Executive Order No. 13858.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Military Construction, Veterans 
Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2020''.

DIVISION E--TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED 
                   AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020

     The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Departments of 
Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and for other purposes, 
namely:

                                TITLE I

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                        Office of the Secretary

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, $113,910,000 
(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000) (increased by $1) 
(reduced by $1) (reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) 
(reduced by $10,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) (reduced by 
$1,000,000) (reduced by $12,000,000), of which not to exceed $3,065,000 
shall be available for the immediate Office of the Secretary; not to 
exceed $1,000,000 shall be available for the immediate Office of the 
Deputy Secretary; not to exceed $20,428,000 (increased by $1,000,000) 
(reduced by $1,000,000) shall be available for the Office of the 
General Counsel; not to exceed $10,331,000 shall be available for the 
Office of the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy; not to 
exceed $14,300,000 shall be available for the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Budget and Programs; not to exceed $2,546,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Governmental 
Affairs; not to exceed $29,244,000 shall be available for the Office of 
the Assistant Secretary for Administration; not to exceed $2,142,000 
shall be available for the Office of Public Affairs; not to exceed 
$1,859,000 shall be available for the Office of the Executive 
Secretariat; not to exceed $12,181,000 shall be available for the 
Office of Intelligence, Security, and Emergency Response; and not to 
exceed $16,814,000 shall be available for the Office of the Chief 
Information Officer:  Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation is 
authorized to transfer funds appropriated for any office of the Office 
of the Secretary to any other office of the Office of the Secretary:  
Provided further, That no appropriation for any office shall be 
increased or decreased by more than 7 percent by all such transfers:  
Provided further, That notice of any change in funding greater than 7 
percent shall be submitted for approval to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That not to exceed 
$60,000 shall be for allocation within the Department for official 
reception and representation expenses as the Secretary may determine:  
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
excluding fees authorized in Public Law 107-71, there may be credited 
to this appropriation up to $2,500,000 in funds received in user fees:  
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
available for the position of Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs.

                        research and technology

    For necessary expenses related to the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Research and Technology, $42,948,000 (reduced by 
$2,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000) (reduced by $800,000) (reduced by 
$2,000,000), of which $21,166,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2022, and of which $15,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, is for new competitive grants under section 5505 of title 49, 
United States Code, for Tier I University Transportation Centers:  
Provided, That such amounts are in addition to amounts previously 
provided for such program:  Provided further, That section 
5505(c)(4)(A) of title 49, United States Code, shall not apply to 
amounts for additional Tier I University Transportation Centers 
provided under this heading:  Provided further, That there may be 
credited to this appropriation, to be available until expended, funds 
received from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for training:  
Provided further, That any reference in law, regulation, judicial 
proceedings, or elsewhere to the Research and Innovative Technology 
Administration shall continue to be deemed to be a reference to the 
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Research and Technology of the 
Department of Transportation.

                  national infrastructure investments

    For capital investments in surface transportation infrastructure, 
$1,000,000,000 (reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000) 
(reduced by $1) (increased by $1) (reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by 
$1,000,000), to remain available through September 30, 2022:  Provided, 
That the Secretary of Transportation shall distribute funds provided 
under this heading as discretionary grants to be awarded to a State, 
local government, transit agency, port authority, or a collaboration 
among such entities on a competitive basis for projects that will have 
a significant local or regional impact:  Provided further, That 
projects eligible for funding provided under this heading shall 
include, but not be limited to, highway or bridge projects eligible 
under title 23, United States Code; public transportation projects 
eligible under chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code; passenger 
and freight rail transportation projects; and port infrastructure 
investments (including inland port infrastructure and land ports of 
entry):  Provided further, That of the amount made available under this 
heading, the Secretary shall use $15,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000) 
for the planning, preparation or design of projects eligible for 
funding under this heading, with an emphasis on transit, transit 
oriented development, and multimodal projects:  Provided further, That 
of the amount made available under this heading, the Secretary shall 
use $20,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000) for 
the planning, preparation or design of projects eligible for funding 
under this heading located in areas of persistent poverty:  Provided 
further, That the term persistent poverty means any county that has had 
20 percent or more of its population living in poverty over the past 30 
years, as measured by the 1990 and 2000 decennial census and the most 
recent Small Area Income and Poverty Estimates, or any census tract 
with a poverty rate of at least 20 percent as measured by the 2013-2017 
five-year data series available from the American Community Survey of 
the Census Bureau, or any territory or possession of the United States: 
 Provided further, That grants awarded under the previous three 
provisos shall not be subject to a minimum grant size:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary may use up to 20 percent of the funds made 
available under this heading for the purpose of paying the subsidy and 
administrative costs of projects eligible for Federal credit assistance 
under chapter 6 of title 23, United States Code, or sections 501 
through 504 of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 
1976 (Public Law 94-210), as amended, if the Secretary finds that such 
use of the funds would advance the purposes of this paragraph:  
Provided further, That in distributing funds provided under this 
heading, the Secretary shall take such measures so as to ensure an 
equitable geographic distribution of funds, an equitable distribution 
of funds between urban and rural areas, and the investment in a variety 
of transportation modes, including public transit, passenger rail, and 
pedestrian improvements:  Provided further, That a grant funded under 
this heading shall be not less than $5,000,000 and not greater than 
$50,000,000:  Provided further, That not more than 15 percent of the 
funds made available under this heading may be awarded to projects in a 
single State:  Provided further, That the Federal share of the costs 
for which an expenditure is made under this heading shall be, at the 
option of the recipient, up to 80 percent:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall give priority to projects that require a contribution 
of Federal funds in order to complete an overall financing package:  
Provided further, That of the funds awarded under this heading not more 
than 50 percent shall be for projects located in a rural area with a 
population equal to or less than 200,000:  Provided further, That for 
projects located in a rural area, the minimum grant size shall be 
$1,000,000 and the Secretary may increase the Federal share of costs 
above 80 percent:  Provided further, That of the funds awarded under 
this heading not more than 50 percent shall be for projects located in 
an urbanized area with a population of more than 200,000:  Provided 
further, That funds for an urbanized area under the previous proviso 
may be obligated to projects in the metropolitan area established under 
section 134 of title 23, United States Code, that encompasses such 
urbanized area:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall consider 
the benefits of a project on urban and rural areas to the fullest 
extent to include all relevant geographic areas:  Provided further, 
That projects conducted using funds provided under this heading must 
comply with the requirements of subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 
40, United States Code:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
conduct a new competition to select the grants and credit assistance 
awarded under this heading:  Provided further, That the Secretary may 
retain up to $25,000,000 of the funds provided under this heading, and 
may transfer portions of those funds to the Administrators of the 
Federal Highway Administration, the Federal Transit Administration, the 
Federal Railroad Administration, and the Maritime Administration to 
fund the award and oversight of grants and credit assistance made under 
the National Infrastructure Investments program:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary shall consider and award projects based solely on 
the selection criteria from the fiscal year 2017 Notice of Funding 
Opportunity:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding the previous 
proviso, the Secretary shall not use the Federal share or an 
applicant's ability to generate non-Federal revenue as a selection 
criteria in awarding projects:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall issue the Notice of Funding Opportunity no later than 60 days 
after enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That such Notice of 
Funding Opportunity shall require application submissions 90 days after 
the publishing of such Notice:  Provided further, That of the 
applications submitted under the previous two provisos, the Secretary 
shall make grants no later than 270 days after enactment of this Act in 
such amounts that the Secretary determines:  Provided further, That 
such sums provided for national infrastructure investments for 
multimodal safety projects under title VIII of division F of the 
Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public 
Law 113-6; 127 Stat. 432) shall remain available through fiscal year 
2024 for the liquidation of valid obligations of active grants awarded 
with this funding:  Provided further, That the preceding proviso shall 
be applied as if it were in effect on September 30, 2019.

     national surface transportation and innovative finance bureau

    For necessary expenses of the National Surface Transportation and 
Innovative Finance Bureau as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 116, $5,000,000 
(increased by $1,000,000), to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That the Secretary shall notify the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations no less than 15 days prior to exercising 
the transfer authority granted under section 116(h) of title 49, United 
States Code.

                      financial management capital

    For necessary expenses for upgrading and enhancing the Department 
of Transportation's financial systems and re-engineering business 
processes, $2,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2021.

                       cyber security initiatives

    For necessary expenses for cyber security initiatives, including 
necessary upgrades to wide area network and information technology 
infrastructure, improvement of network perimeter controls and identity 
management, testing and assessment of information technology against 
business, security, and other requirements, implementation of Federal 
cyber security initiatives and information infrastructure enhancements, 
and implementation of enhanced security controls on network devices, 
$15,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2021.

                         office of civil rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $9,470,000.

           transportation planning, research, and development

    For necessary expenses for conducting transportation planning, 
research, systems development, development activities, and making 
grants, $15,879,000 (reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000), 
to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of such amount, 
$1,000,000 shall be for necessary expenses of the Interagency 
Infrastructure Permitting Improvement Center (IIPIC):  Provided 
further, That there may be transferred to this appropriation, to remain 
available until expended, amounts transferred from other Federal 
agencies for expenses incurred under this heading for IIPIC activities 
not related to transportation infrastructure:  Provided further, That 
the tools and analysis developed by the IIPIC shall be available to 
other Federal agencies for the permitting and review of major 
infrastructure projects not related to transportation only to the 
extent that other Federal agencies provide funding to the Department as 
provided for under the previous proviso.

                          working capital fund

    For necessary expenses for operating costs and capital outlays of 
the Working Capital Fund, not to exceed $424,901,000, shall be paid 
from appropriations made available to the Department of Transportation: 
 Provided, That such services shall be provided on a competitive basis 
to entities within the Department of Transportation:  Provided further, 
That the above limitation on operating expenses shall not apply to non-
DOT entities:  Provided further, That no funds appropriated in this Act 
to an agency of the Department shall be transferred to the Working 
Capital Fund without majority approval of the Working Capital Fund 
Steering Committee and approval of the Secretary:  Provided further, 
That no assessments may be levied against any program, budget activity, 
subactivity or project funded by this Act unless notice of such 
assessments and the basis therefor are presented to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations and are approved by such 
Committees.

       small and disadvantaged business utilization and outreach

    For necessary expenses for small and disadvantaged business 
utilization and outreach activities, $4,646,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 
332, these funds may be used for business opportunities related to any 
mode of transportation:  Provided further, That appropriations made 
available under this heading shall be available for any purpose 
consistent with prior year appropriations that were made available 
under the heading ``Minority Business Resource Center Program''.

                        payments to air carriers

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    In addition to funds made available from any other source to carry 
out the essential air service program under 49 U.S.C. 41731 through 
41742, $175,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust 
Fund, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That in 
determining between or among carriers competing to provide service to a 
community, the Secretary may consider the relative subsidy requirements 
of the carriers:  Provided further, That basic essential air service 
minimum requirements shall not include the 15-passenger capacity 
requirement under subsection 41732(b)(3) of title 49, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act or any 
other Act shall be used to enter into a new contract with a community 
located less than 40 miles from the nearest small hub airport before 
the Secretary has negotiated with the community over a local cost 
share:  Provided further, That amounts authorized to be distributed for 
the essential air service program under subsection 41742(b) of title 
49, United States Code, shall be made available immediately from 
amounts otherwise provided to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
Administration:  Provided further, That the Administrator may reimburse 
such amounts from fees credited to the account established under 
section 45303 of title 49, United States Code.

  administrative provisions--office of the secretary of transportation

    Sec. 101.  None of the funds made available in this Act to the 
Department of Transportation may be obligated for the Office of the 
Secretary of Transportation to approve assessments or reimbursable 
agreements pertaining to funds appropriated to the modal 
administrations in this Act, except for activities underway on the date 
of enactment of this Act, unless such assessments or agreements have 
completed the normal reprogramming process for Congressional 
notification.
    Sec. 102.  The Secretary shall post on the Web site of the 
Department of Transportation a schedule of all meetings of the Council 
on Credit and Finance, including the agenda for each meeting, and 
require the Council on Credit and Finance to record the decisions and 
actions of each meeting.
    Sec. 103.  In addition to authority provided by section 327 of 
title 49, United States Code, the Department's Working Capital Fund is 
hereby authorized to provide partial or full payments in advance and 
accept subsequent reimbursements from all Federal agencies from 
available funds for transit benefit distribution services that are 
necessary to carry out the Federal transit pass transportation fringe 
benefit program under Executive Order No. 13150 and section 3049 of 
Public Law 109-59:  Provided, That the Department shall maintain a 
reasonable operating reserve in the Working Capital Fund, to be 
expended in advance to provide uninterrupted transit benefits to 
Government employees:  Provided further, That such reserve will not 
exceed one month of benefits payable and may be used only for the 
purpose of providing for the continuation of transit benefits:  
Provided further, That the Working Capital Fund will be fully 
reimbursed by each customer agency from available funds for the actual 
cost of the transit benefit.
    Sec. 104.  For an additional amount for ``Office of the Secretary--
Salaries and Expenses'', $2,052,000, to become available on the date on 
which the Secretary announces the selection of projects to receive 
awards for each of the following competitive grants, with respect to 
funds made available for fiscal year 2017 or fiscal year 2018 for such 
grants:
            (1) Federal-State Partnership for State of Good Repair 
        Grants, as authorized by section 24911 of title 49, United 
        States Code, and as funded under the heading ``Federal Railroad 
        Administration--Federal-State Partnership for State of Good 
        Repair Grants'' by Public Law 115-31 and as funded under the 
        heading ``Federal Railroad Administration--Federal-State 
        Partnership for State of Good Repair'' by Public Law 115-141.
            (2) Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety 
        Improvements Grants, as authorized by section 22907 of title 
        49, United States Code, and as funded under the heading 
        ``Federal Railroad Administration--Consolidated Rail 
        Infrastructure and Safety Improvements'' by Public Law 115-141.
            (3) Restoration and Enhancement Grants, as authorized by 
        section 22908 of title 49, United States Code, and as funded 
        under the heading ``Federal Railroad Administration--
        Restoration and Enhancement Grants'' by Public Law 115-31 and 
        as funded under the heading ``Federal Railroad Administration--
        Restoration and Enhancement'' by Public Law 115-141.
    Sec. 105.  (a) Of the amount made available to ``Office of the 
Secretary--Research and Technology'', $1,000,000 (increased by 
$500,000) (reduced by $500,000) shall be for the Secretary of 
Transportation to enter into an arrangement with the National Academies 
of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to conduct a study through the 
Transportation Research Board on effective ways to measure the 
resilience of transportation systems and services to natural disasters, 
natural hazards, and other potential disruptions.
     (b) The study conducted pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
            (1) identify and examine approaches used by Federal 
        agencies, States, metropolitan planning organizations, local 
        governments, and other organizations, including approaches 
        described in academic literature, to develop metrics for 
        transportation resilience, including methodologies used for 
        quantitative and qualitative data collection and analysis; and
            (2) provide findings and recommendations on approaches to 
        measuring resilience that have shown or promise success, and 
        strategies to overcome challenges in measuring resilience.
    (c) No later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Transportation shall enter into the arrangement 
described in subsection (a).
    (d) No later than 210 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall 
provide an interim report of its findings to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate.
    (e) No later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Transportation shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate the final 
study developed by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and 
Medicine.
    Sec. 106. (a) Of the amount made available to ``Office of the 
Secretary--Research and Technology'', $10,000,000 shall be for the 
establishment of a Highly Automated Systems Safety Center of Excellence 
within the Department of Transportation, in order to have a Department 
of Transportation workforce capable of reviewing, validating, and 
certifying the safety of automated technologies.
    (b) The Highly Automated Systems Safety Center of Excellence 
shall--
            (1) serve as a single place within the Department of 
        Transportation for expertise in automation and human behavior, 
        computer science, machine learning, sensors, and other 
        technologies involving automated systems;
            (2) support all Operating Administrations of the Department 
        of Transportation; and
            (3) have a workforce composed of Department of 
        Transportation employees, including direct hires or detailees 
        from Operating Administrations.
    (c) Employees of the Highly Automated Systems Safety Center of 
Excellence shall audit, inspect, and certify highly automated systems 
to ensure their safety.
    (d) No later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary shall report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate on staffing needs and the 
staffing plan for the Highly Automated Systems Safety Center of 
Excellence.

                    Federal Aviation Administration

                               operations

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Aviation Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, including operations and research activities 
related to commercial space transportation, administrative expenses for 
research and development, establishment of air navigation facilities, 
the operation (including leasing) and maintenance of aircraft, 
subsidizing the cost of aeronautical charts and maps sold to the 
public, the lease or purchase of passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only, $10,677,758,000 (reduced by $1) (increased by $1), to 
remain available until September 30, 2021, of which $9,833,400,000 
shall be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund:  Provided, 
That of the sums appropriated under this heading--
            (1) not less than $1,603,969,000 (increased by $7,500,000) 
        shall be available for aviation safety activities;
            (2) not to exceed $7,841,720,000 shall be available for air 
        traffic organization activities;
            (3) not to exceed $24,949,000 (increased by $8,089,000) 
        shall be available for commercial space transportation 
        activities;
            (4) not to exceed $816,398,000 (reduced by $7,500,000) 
        (reduced by $8,089,000) shall be available for finance and 
        management activities;
            (5) not to exceed $61,258,000 shall be available for 
        NextGen and operations planning activities;
            (6) not to exceed $114,165,000 shall be available for 
        security and hazardous materials safety; and
            (7) not to exceed $215,299,000 shall be available for staff 
        offices, of which $5,000,000 is for the Minority Serving 
        Institutions internship program, $5,000,000 is for the aviation 
        maintenance technician development program (as described in 
        section 625 of Public Law 115-254), and $5,000,000 is for the 
        aviation workforce development program (as described in section 
        625 of Public Law 115-254):
  Provided further, That not to exceed 5 percent of any budget 
activity, except for aviation safety budget activity, may be 
transferred to any budget activity under this heading:  Provided 
further, That no transfer may increase or decrease any appropriation by 
more than 5 percent:  Provided further, That any transfer in excess of 
5 percent shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 
405 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or 
expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section:  Provided further, That not later than 60 days after the 
submission of the budget request, the Administrator of the Federal 
Aviation Administration shall transmit to Congress an annual update to 
the report submitted to Congress in December 2004 pursuant to section 
221 of Public Law 108-176:  Provided further, That the amount herein 
appropriated shall be reduced by $100,000 for each day after the date 
that is 60 days after the submission of the budget request that such 
report has not been submitted to the Congress:  Provided further, That 
not later than 60 days after the submission of the budget request, the 
Administrator shall transmit to Congress a companion report that 
describes a comprehensive strategy for staffing, hiring, and training 
flight standards and aircraft certification staff in a format similar 
to the one utilized for the controller staffing plan, including stated 
attrition estimates and numerical hiring goals by fiscal year:  
Provided further, That the amount herein appropriated shall be reduced 
by $100,000 per day for each day after the date that is 60 days after 
the submission of the budget request that such report has not been 
submitted to Congress:  Provided further, That funds may be used to 
enter into a grant agreement with a nonprofit standard-setting 
organization to assist in the development of aviation safety standards: 
 Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be 
available for new applicants for the second career training program:  
Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available 
for the Federal Aviation Administration to finalize or implement any 
regulation that would promulgate new aviation user fees not 
specifically authorized by law after the date of the enactment of this 
Act:  Provided further, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation, as offsetting collections, funds received from States, 
counties, municipalities, foreign authorities, other public 
authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred in the provision 
of agency services, including receipts for the maintenance and 
operation of air navigation facilities, and for issuance, renewal or 
modification of certificates, including airman, aircraft, and repair 
station certificates, or for tests related thereto, or for processing 
major repair or alteration forms:  Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, not less than $169,000,000 shall be 
used to fund direct operations of the current air traffic control 
towers in the contract tower program, including the contract tower cost 
share program, and any airport that is currently qualified or that will 
qualify for the program during the fiscal year:  Provided further, That 
none of the funds in this Act for aeronautical charting and cartography 
are available for activities conducted by, or coordinated through, the 
Working Capital Fund:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act or any other Act 
may be used to eliminate the Contract Weather Observers program at any 
airport:  Provided further, That the opening, closing, reorganization, 
or redesignation of field or regional offices shall be subject to the 
requirements of section 405 of this Act.

                        facilities and equipment

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
acquisition, establishment, technical support services, improvement by 
contract or purchase, and hire of national airspace systems and 
experimental facilities and equipment, as authorized under part A of 
subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, including initial 
acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; engineering and 
service testing, including construction of test facilities and 
acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; construction and 
furnishing of quarters and related accommodations for officers and 
employees of the Federal Aviation Administration stationed at remote 
localities where such accommodations are not available; and the 
purchase, lease, or transfer of aircraft from funds available under 
this heading, including aircraft for aviation regulation and 
certification; to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, 
$3,000,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $7,000,000) 
(reduced by $7,000,000), of which $512,823,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2021, $2,372,127,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2022, and $115,050,000 shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That there may be credited to this appropriation 
funds received from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred in the 
establishment, improvement, and modernization of national airspace 
systems:  Provided further, That no later than 60 days after the 
submission of the budget request, the Secretary of Transportation shall 
transmit to the Congress an investment plan for the Federal Aviation 
Administration which includes funding for each budget line item for 
fiscal years 2021 through 2025, with total funding for each year of the 
plan constrained to the funding targets for those years as estimated 
and approved by the Office of Management and Budget.

                 research, engineering, and development

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for research, 
engineering, and development, as authorized under part A of subtitle 
VII of title 49, United States Code, including construction of 
experimental facilities and acquisition of necessary sites by lease or 
grant, $191,100,000 (increased by $1,500,000) (reduced by $1,500,000) 
(increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000), to be derived from 
the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and to remain available until 
September 30, 2022:  Provided, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation as offsetting collections, funds received from States, 
counties, municipalities, other public authorities, and private 
sources, which shall be available for expenses incurred for research, 
engineering, and development:  Provided further, That funds made 
available under this heading shall be used in accordance with the 
report accompanying this Act:  Provided further, That not to exceed 10 
percent of any funding level specified under this heading in the report 
accompanying this Act may be transferred to any other funding level 
specified under this heading in the report accompanying this Act:  
Provided further, That no transfer may increase or decrease any funding 
level by more than 10 percent:  Provided further, That any transfer in 
excess of 10 percent shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under 
section 405 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or 
expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section.

                       grants-in-aid for airports

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For liquidation of obligations incurred for grants-in-aid for 
airport planning and development, and noise compatibility planning and 
programs as authorized under subchapter I of chapter 471 and subchapter 
I of chapter 475 of title 49, United States Code, and under other law 
authorizing such obligations; for procurement, installation, and 
commissioning of runway incursion prevention devices and systems at 
airports of such title; for grants authorized under section 41743 of 
title 49, United States Code; and for inspection activities and 
administration of airport safety programs, including those related to 
airport operating certificates under section 44706 of title 49, United 
States Code, $3,000,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway 
Trust Fund and to remain available until expended:  Provided, That none 
of the funds under this heading shall be available for the planning or 
execution of programs the obligations for which are in excess of 
$3,350,000,000 (reduced by $2,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000) in 
fiscal year 2020, notwithstanding section 47117(g) of title 49, United 
States Code:  Provided further, That none of the funds under this 
heading shall be available for the replacement of baggage conveyor 
systems, reconfiguration of terminal baggage areas, or other airport 
improvements that are necessary to install bulk explosive detection 
systems:  Provided further, That notwithstanding section 47109(a) of 
title 49, United States Code, the Government's share of allowable 
project costs under paragraph (2) for subgrants or paragraph (3) of 
that section shall be 95 percent for a project at other than a large or 
medium hub airport that is a successive phase of a multi-phased 
construction project for which the project sponsor received a grant in 
fiscal year 2011 for the construction project:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, of funds limited under this 
heading, not more than $112,600,000 shall be available for 
administration, not less than $15,000,000 shall be available for the 
Airport Cooperative Research Program, not less than $33,210,000 shall 
be available for Airport Technology Research, and $10,000,000 
(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000), to remain available 
until expended, shall be available and transferred to ``Office of the 
Secretary, Salaries and Expenses'' to carry out the Small Community Air 
Service Development Program:  Provided further, That in addition to 
airports eligible under section 41743 of title 49, United States Code, 
such program may include the participation of an airport that serves a 
community or consortium that is not larger than a small hub airport, 
according to FAA hub classifications effective at the time the Office 
of the Secretary issues a request for proposals.

                       grants-in-aid for airports

    For an additional amount for ``Grants-In-Aid for Airports'', to 
enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants for projects as 
authorized by subchapter 1 of chapter 471 and subchapter 1 of chapter 
475 of title 49, United States Code, $500,000,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2022:  Provided, That amounts made available 
under this heading shall be derived from the general fund, and such 
funds shall not be subject to apportionment formulas, special 
apportionment categories, or minimum percentages under chapter 471:  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall distribute funds provided 
under this heading as discretionary grants to airports:  Provided 
further, That the amount made available under this heading shall not be 
subject to any limitation on obligations for the Grants-in-Aid for 
Airports program set forth in any Act:  Provided further, That the 
Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration may retain up to 
0.5 percent of the funds provided under this heading to fund the award 
and oversight by the Administrator of grants made under this heading:  
Provided further, That section 47115(j) of title 49, United States 
Code, shall not apply with respect to amounts made available under this 
heading:  Provided further, That priority consideration shall be, 
without regard to airport size, based on project justification and 
completeness of pre-grant actions.

       administrative provisions--federal aviation administration

    Sec. 110.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to compensate 
in excess of 600 technical staff-years under the federally funded 
research and development center contract between the Federal Aviation 
Administration and the Center for Advanced Aviation Systems Development 
during fiscal year 2020.
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used to pursue or 
adopt guidelines or regulations requiring airport sponsors to provide 
to the Federal Aviation Administration without cost building 
construction, maintenance, utilities and expenses, or space in airport 
sponsor-owned buildings for services relating to air traffic control, 
air navigation, or weather reporting:  Provided, That the prohibition 
of funds in this section does not apply to negotiations between the 
agency and airport sponsors to achieve agreement on ``below-market'' 
rates for these items or to grant assurances that require airport 
sponsors to provide land without cost to the Federal Aviation 
Administration for air traffic control facilities.
    Sec. 112.  The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration 
may reimburse amounts made available to satisfy 49 U.S.C. 41742(a)(1) 
from fees credited under 49 U.S.C. 45303 and any amount remaining in 
such account at the close of that fiscal year may be made available to 
satisfy section 41742(a)(1) for the subsequent fiscal year.
    Sec. 113.  Amounts collected under section 40113(e) of title 49, 
United States Code, shall be credited to the appropriation current at 
the time of collection, to be merged with and available for the same 
purposes of such appropriation.
    Sec. 114.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
paying premium pay under subsection 5546(a) of title 5, United States 
Code, to any Federal Aviation Administration employee unless such 
employee actually performed work during the time corresponding to such 
premium pay.
    Sec. 115.  None of the funds in this Act may be obligated or 
expended for an employee of the Federal Aviation Administration to 
purchase a store gift card or gift certificate through use of a 
Government-issued credit card.
    Sec. 116.  None of the funds in this Act may be obligated or 
expended for retention bonuses for an employee of the Federal Aviation 
Administration without the prior written approval of the Assistant 
Secretary for Administration of the Department of Transportation.
    Sec. 117.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds made available under this Act or any prior Act may be used to 
implement or to continue to implement any limitation on the ability of 
any owner or operator of a private aircraft to obtain, upon a request 
to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, a blocking 
of that owner's or operator's aircraft registration number from any 
display of the Federal Aviation Administration's Aircraft Situational 
Display to Industry data that is made available to the public, except 
data made available to a Government agency, for the noncommercial 
flights of that owner or operator.
    Sec. 118.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of more than eight political and Presidential 
appointees in the Federal Aviation Administration.
    Sec. 119.  None of the funds made available under this Act may be 
used to increase fees pursuant to section 44721 of title 49, United 
States Code, until the Federal Aviation Administration provides to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations a report that justifies 
all fees related to aeronautical navigation products and explains how 
such fees are consistent with Executive Order No. 13642.
    Sec. 119A.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to close a 
regional operations center of the Federal Aviation Administration or 
reduce its services unless the Administrator notifies the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations not less than 90 full business days 
in advance.
    Sec. 119B.  None of the funds appropriated or limited by this Act 
may be used to change weight restrictions or prior permission rules at 
Teterboro airport in Teterboro, New Jersey.
    Sec. 119C.  None of the funds provided under this Act may be used 
by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration to withhold 
from consideration and approval any new application for participation 
in the Contract Tower Program, or for reevaluation of Cost-share 
Program participants as long as the Federal Aviation Administration has 
received an application from the airport, and as long as the 
Administrator determines such tower is eligible.
    Sec. 119D.  Of the funds provided under the heading ``Grants-in-aid 
for Airports'', up to $3,500,000 may be for necessary expenses, 
including an independent verification regime, to provide reimbursement 
to airport sponsors that do not provide gateway operations and 
providers of general aviation ground support services located at those 
airports closed during a temporary flight restriction (TFR) for any 
residence of the President that is designated or identified to be 
secured by the United States Secret Service, and for direct and 
incremental financial losses incurred while such airports are closed 
solely due to the actions of the Federal Government:  Provided, That no 
funds shall be obligated or distributed to airport sponsors that do not 
provide gateway operations and providers of general aviation ground 
support services until an independent audit is completed:  Provided 
further, That losses incurred as a result of violations of law, or 
through fault or negligence, of such operators and service providers or 
of third parties (including airports) are not eligible for 
reimbursements:  Provided further, That obligation and expenditure of 
funds are conditional upon full release of the United States Government 
for all claims for financial losses resulting from such actions.

                     Federal Highway Administration

                 limitation on administrative expenses

                          (highway trust fund)

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Not to exceed $453,549,689, together with advances and 
reimbursements received by the Federal Highway Administration, shall be 
obligated for necessary expenses for administration and operation of 
the Federal Highway Administration. In addition, $3,248,000 shall be 
transferred to the Appalachian Regional Commission in accordance with 
section 104(a) of title 23, United States Code.

                          federal-aid highways

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Funds available for the implementation or execution of Federal-aid 
highway and highway safety construction programs authorized under 
titles 23 and 49, United States Code, and the provisions of the Fixing 
America's Surface Transportation (FAST) Act (Public Law 114-94) shall 
not exceed total obligations of $46,365,092,000 for fiscal year 2020:  
Provided, That the Secretary may collect and spend fees, as authorized 
by title 23, United States Code, to cover the costs of services of 
expert firms, including counsel, in the field of municipal and project 
finance to assist in the underwriting and servicing of Federal credit 
instruments and all or a portion of the costs to the Federal Government 
of servicing such credit instruments:  Provided further, That such fees 
are available until expended to pay for such costs:  Provided further, 
That such amounts are in addition to administrative expenses that are 
also available for such purpose, and are not subject to any obligation 
limitation or the limitation on administrative expenses under section 
608 of title 23, United States Code.

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For the payment of obligations incurred in carrying out Federal-aid 
highway and highway safety construction programs authorized under title 
23, United States Code, $47,104,092,000 derived from the Highway Trust 
Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account), to remain available until 
expended.

                    highway infrastructure programs

    There is hereby appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation 
$1,750,000,000 (increased by $10,000,000) (increased by $12,000,000):  
Provided, That the amounts made available under this heading shall be 
derived from the general fund, shall be in addition to any funds 
provided for fiscal year 2020 in this or any other Act for ``Federal-
aid Highways'' under chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code, and 
shall not affect the distribution or amount of funds provided in any 
other Act:  Provided further, That of the sums made available under 
this heading--
            (1) $1,493,100,000 (increased by $10,000,000) (increased by 
        $12,000,000) shall be for activities eligible under section 
        133(b) of title 23, United States Code, for the elimination of 
        hazards and the installation of protective devices at railway-
        highway crossings, and to provide necessary charging 
        infrastructure along corridor ready or corridor pending 
        alternative fuel corridors as defined under 23 U.S.C. 151;
            (2) $5,451,000 shall be for activities eligible under the 
        Puerto Rico Highway Program as described in section 
        165(b)(2)(C) of title 23, United States Code;
            (3) $1,449,000 shall be for activities eligible under the 
        Territorial Highway Program, as described in section 165(c)(6) 
        of title 23, United States Code;
            (4) $166,000,000 shall be for the nationally significant 
        Federal lands and tribal projects program under section 1123 of 
        the FAST Act;
            (5) $50,000,000 shall be for competitive grants for 
        activities described in section 130(a) of title 23, United 
        States Code;
            (6) $15,000,000 shall be for grants for Advanced Digital 
        Construction Management Systems;
            (7) $12,000,0000 shall be for the Regional Infrastructure 
        Accelerator Demonstration Program authorized under section 1441 
        of the FAST Act;
            (8) $5,000,000 shall be for a National Road Network Pilot 
        Program for the Federal Highway Administration to create a 
        national level, geo-spatial dataset that uses data already 
        collected under the Highway Performance Monitoring System; and
            (9) $2,000,000 shall be for research that leads to 
        decreases in highway and pedestrian fatalities among Tribal 
        populations:
  Provided further, That the funds made available under this heading 
for activities eligible under section 133(b) of title 23, United States 
Code, for the elimination of hazards and the installation of protective 
devices at railway-highway crossings, and to provide charging 
infrastructure for alternative fuel corridors, shall be suballocated in 
the manner described in section 133(d) of such title, except that the 
set-aside described in section 133(h) of title 23, United States Code 
shall not apply to funds made available under this heading:  Provided 
further, That the funds made available under this heading in paragraph 
(1), shall be administered as if apportioned under chapter 1 of such 
title and shall remain available through September 30, 2023:  Provided 
further, That the funds made available under this heading in paragraph 
(1), shall be apportioned to the States in the same ratio as the 
obligation limitation for fiscal year 2020 is distributed among the 
States in section 120(a)(5) of this Act:  Provided further, That, 
except as provided in the following proviso, the funds made available 
under this heading for activities eligible under the Puerto Rico 
Highway Program and activities eligible under the Territorial Highway 
Program shall be administered as if allocated under sections 165(b) and 
165(c), respectively, of such title and shall remain available through 
September 30, 2023:  Provided further, That the funds made available 
under this heading for activities eligible under the Puerto Rico 
Highway Program shall not be subject to the requirements of sections 
165(b)(2)(A) or 165(b)(2)(B) of such title:  Provided further, That the 
funds made available under this heading for the nationally significant 
Federal lands and tribal projects program under section 1123 of the 
FAST Act shall remain available through September 30, 2023:  Provided 
further, That the funds made available under this heading in paragraph 
(5) for the elimination of hazards and the installation of protective 
devices at railway-highway crossings shall be available for projects 
eligible under section 22907(c) of title 49, United States Code, for 
commuter authorities, as defined in section 24102(2) of title 49, 
United States Code, that experienced at least one accident investigated 
by the National Transportation Safety Board between January 1, 2008 and 
December 31, 2018:  Provided further, That amounts provided under this 
heading in paragraphs (5), (6), (7), (8), and (9) shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That funds made available 
under this heading for Advanced Digital Construction Management Systems 
shall be for competitive grants to State and local governments to 
develop and expand the capacity to use and deploy Advanced Digital 
Construction Management Systems and the minimum grant amount shall be 
$500,000.

       administrative provisions--federal highway administration

    Sec. 120. (a) For fiscal year 2020, the Secretary of Transportation 
shall--
            (1) not distribute from the obligation limitation for 
        Federal-aid highways--
                    (A) amounts authorized for administrative expenses 
                and programs by section 104(a) of title 23, United 
                States Code; and
                    (B) amounts authorized for the Bureau of 
                Transportation Statistics;
            (2) not distribute an amount from the obligation limitation 
        for Federal-aid highways that is equal to the unobligated 
        balance of amounts--
                    (A) made available from the Highway Trust Fund 
                (other than the Mass Transit Account) for Federal-aid 
                highway and highway safety construction programs for 
                previous fiscal years the funds for which are allocated 
                by the Secretary (or apportioned by the Secretary under 
                sections 202 or 204 of title 23, United States Code); 
                and
                    (B) for which obligation limitation was provided in 
                a previous fiscal year;
            (3) determine the proportion that--
                    (A) the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
                highways, less the aggregate of amounts not distributed 
                under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection; bears 
                to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for the Federal-aid highway and highway 
                safety construction programs (other than sums 
                authorized to be appropriated for provisions of law 
                described in paragraphs (1) through (11) of subsection 
                (b) and sums authorized to be appropriated for section 
                119 of title 23, United States Code, equal to the 
                amount referred to in subsection (b)(12) for such 
                fiscal year), less the aggregate of the amounts not 
                distributed under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this 
                subsection;
            (4) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
        highways, less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2), for each of the programs (other than 
        programs to which paragraph (1) applies) that are allocated by 
        the Secretary under the Fixing America's Surface Transportation 
        Act and title 23, United States Code, or apportioned by the 
        Secretary under sections 202 or 204 of that title, by 
        multiplying--
                    (A) the proportion determined under paragraph (3); 
                by
                    (B) the amounts authorized to be appropriated for 
                each such program for such fiscal year; and
            (5) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
        highways, less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) and the amounts distributed under 
        paragraph (4), for Federal-aid highway and highway safety 
        construction programs that are apportioned by the Secretary 
        under title 23, United States Code (other than the amounts 
        apportioned for the National Highway Performance Program in 
        section 119 of title 23, United States Code, that are exempt 
        from the limitation under subsection (b)(12) and the amounts 
        apportioned under sections 202 and 204 of that title) in the 
        proportion that--
                    (A) amounts authorized to be appropriated for the 
                programs that are apportioned under title 23, United 
                States Code, to each State for such fiscal year; bears 
                to
                    (B) the total of the amounts authorized to be 
                appropriated for the programs that are apportioned 
                under title 23, United States Code, to all States for 
                such fiscal year.
    (b) Exceptions From Obligation Limitation.--The obligation 
limitation for Federal-aid highways shall not apply to obligations 
under or for--
            (1) section 125 of title 23, United States Code;
            (2) section 147 of the Surface Transportation Assistance 
        Act of 1978 (23 U.S.C. 144 note; 92 Stat. 2714);
            (3) section 9 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1981 (95 
        Stat. 1701);
            (4) subsections (b) and (j) of section 131 of the Surface 
        Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 (96 Stat. 2119);
            (5) subsections (b) and (c) of section 149 of the Surface 
        Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987 
        (101 Stat. 198);
            (6) sections 1103 through 1108 of the Intermodal Surface 
        Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 2027);
            (7) section 157 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
        effect on June 8, 1998);
            (8) section 105 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
        effect for fiscal years 1998 through 2004, but only in an 
        amount equal to $639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
            (9) Federal-aid highway programs for which obligation 
        authority was made available under the Transportation Equity 
        Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 107) or subsequent Acts for 
        multiple years or to remain available until expended, but only 
        to the extent that the obligation authority has not lapsed or 
        been used;
            (10) section 105 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
        effect for fiscal years 2005 through 2012, but only in an 
        amount equal to $639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
            (11) section 1603 of SAFETEA-LU (23 U.S.C. 118 note; 119 
        Stat. 1248), to the extent that funds obligated in accordance 
        with that section were not subject to a limitation on 
        obligations at the time at which the funds were initially made 
        available for obligation; and
            (12) section 119 of title 23, United States Code (but, for 
        each of fiscal years 2013 through 2020, only in an amount equal 
        to $639,000,000).
    (c) Redistribution of Unused Obligation Authority.--Notwithstanding 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall, after August 1 of such fiscal 
year--
            (1) revise a distribution of the obligation limitation made 
        available under subsection (a) if an amount distributed cannot 
        be obligated during that fiscal year; and
            (2) redistribute sufficient amounts to those States able to 
        obligate amounts in addition to those previously distributed 
        during that fiscal year, giving priority to those States having 
        large unobligated balances of funds apportioned under sections 
        144 (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of 
        Public Law 112-141) and 104 of title 23, United States Code.
    (d) Applicability of Obligation Limitations to Transportation 
Research Programs.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways shall apply to 
        contract authority for transportation research programs carried 
        out under--
                    (A) chapter 5 of title 23, United States Code; and
                    (B) title VI of the Fixing America's Surface 
                Transportation Act.
            (2) Exception.--Obligation authority made available under 
        paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) remain available for a period of 4 fiscal 
                years; and
                    (B) be in addition to the amount of any limitation 
                imposed on obligations for Federal-aid highway and 
                highway safety construction programs for future fiscal 
                years.
    (e) Redistribution of Certain Authorized Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        distribution of obligation limitation under subsection (a), the 
        Secretary shall distribute to the States any funds (excluding 
        funds authorized for the program under section 202 of title 23, 
        United States Code) that--
                    (A) are authorized to be appropriated for such 
                fiscal year for Federal-aid highway programs; and
                    (B) the Secretary determines will not be allocated 
                to the States (or will not be apportioned to the States 
                under section 204 of title 23, United States Code), and 
                will not be available for obligation, for such fiscal 
                year because of the imposition of any obligation 
                limitation for such fiscal year.
            (2) Ratio.--Funds shall be distributed under paragraph (1) 
        in the same proportion as the distribution of obligation 
        authority under subsection (a)(5).
            (3) Availability.--Funds distributed to each State under 
        paragraph (1) shall be available for any purpose described in 
        section 133(b) of title 23, United States Code.
    Sec. 121.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received by the 
Bureau of Transportation Statistics from the sale of data products, for 
necessary expenses incurred pursuant to chapter 63 of title 49, United 
States Code, may be credited to the Federal-aid highways account for 
the purpose of reimbursing the Bureau for such expenses:  Provided, 
That such funds shall be subject to the obligation limitation for 
Federal-aid highway and highway safety construction programs.
    Sec. 122.  Not less than 15 days prior to waiving, under his or her 
statutory authority, any Buy America requirement for Federal-aid 
highways projects, the Secretary of Transportation shall make an 
informal public notice and comment opportunity on the intent to issue 
such waiver and the reasons therefor:  Provided, That the Secretary 
shall provide an annual report to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations on any waivers granted under the Buy America 
requirements.
    Sec. 123.  None of the funds provided in this Act to the Department 
of Transportation may be used to provide credit assistance unless not 
less than 3 days before any application approval to provide credit 
assistance under sections 603 and 604 of title 23, United States Code, 
the Secretary of Transportation provides notification in writing to the 
following committees: the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations; the Committee on Environment and Public Works and the 
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives:  Provided, That such notification shall include, but 
not be limited to, the name of the project sponsor; a description of 
the project; whether credit assistance will be provided as a direct 
loan, loan guarantee, or line of credit; and the amount of credit 
assistance.
    Sec. 124.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to make a 
grant for a project under section 117 of title 23, United States Code, 
unless the Secretary, at least 60 days before making a grant under that 
section, provides written notification to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations of the proposed grant, including an 
evaluation and justification for the project and the amount of the 
proposed grant award:  Provided, That the written notification required 
in the previous proviso shall be made no later than 180 days after 
enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 125. (a) A State or territory, as defined in section 165 of 
title 23, United States Code, may use for any project eligible under 
section 133(b) of title 23 or section 165 of title 23 and located 
within the boundary of the State or territory any earmarked amount, and 
any associated obligation limitation:  Provided, That the Department of 
Transportation for the State or territory for which the earmarked 
amount was originally designated or directed notifies the Secretary of 
Transportation of its intent to use its authority under this section 
and submits a quarterly report to the Secretary identifying the 
projects to which the funding would be applied. Notwithstanding the 
original period of availability of funds to be obligated under this 
section, such funds and associated obligation limitation shall remain 
available for obligation for a period of 3 fiscal years after the 
fiscal year in which the Secretary of Transportation is notified. The 
Federal share of the cost of a project carried out with funds made 
available under this section shall be the same as associated with the 
earmark.
    (b) In this section, the term ``earmarked amount'' means--
            (1) congressionally directed spending, as defined in rule 
        XLIV of the Standing Rules of the Senate, identified in a prior 
        law, report, or joint explanatory statement, which was 
        authorized to be appropriated or appropriated more than 10 
        fiscal years prior to the current fiscal year, and administered 
        by the Federal Highway Administration; or
            (2) a congressional earmark, as defined in rule XXI of the 
        Rules of the House of Representatives, identified in a prior 
        law, report, or joint explanatory statement, which was 
        authorized to be appropriated or appropriated more than 10 
        fiscal years prior to the current fiscal year, and administered 
        by the Federal Highway Administration.
    (c) The authority under subsection (a) may be exercised only for 
those projects or activities that have obligated less than 10 percent 
of the amount made available for obligation as of October 1 of the 
current fiscal year, and shall be applied to projects within the same 
general geographic area within 5 miles for which the funding was 
designated, except that a State or territory may apply such authority 
to unexpended balances of funds from projects or activities the State 
or territory certifies have been closed and for which payments have 
been made under a final voucher.
    (d) The Secretary shall submit consolidated reports of the 
information provided by the States and territories each quarter to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 126.  The following are repealed:
            (1) Section 352 of the National Highway System Designation 
        Act of 1995 (Public Law 104-59, 109 Stat. 568).
            (2) Section 324 of the Department of Transportation and 
        Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1986 (Public Law 99-190; 
        99 Stat. 1288).
            (3) Section 325 of the Department of Transportation and 
        Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996 (Public Law 104-50; 
        109 Stat. 456).
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, tolls collected for motor 
vehicles on any bridge connecting the boroughs of Brooklyn, New York, 
and Staten Island, New York, shall be collected for any such vehicles 
exiting from such bridge in both Staten Island and Brooklyn.
    Sec. 127.  Section 125(d) of title 23, United States Code, is 
amended by striking paragraph (4).
    Sec. 128.  Until final guidance is published, the Administrator of 
the Federal Highway Administration shall make determinations on Buy 
America waivers for those waivers that were submitted before April 17, 
2018, as if the notice of proposed rulemaking of that date was not in 
effect.
    Sec. 129.  Section 1948 of SAFETEA-LU (Public Law 109-59; 119 Stat. 
1514) is repealed.
    Sec. 129A.  Section 119(e)(5) of title 23, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
            ``(5) Requirement for plan.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Notwithstanding section 120, 
                beginning on October 1, 2019, and each fiscal year 
                thereafter, if the Secretary determines that a State 
                has not developed and implemented a State asset 
                management plan consistent with this section, the 
                Federal share payable on account of any project or 
                activity for which funds are obligated by the State in 
                that fiscal year under this section shall be 65 
                percent.
                    ``(B) Determination.--The Secretary shall make the 
                determination under subparagraph (A) not later than the 
                day before the beginning of each fiscal year.''.

              Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration

              motor carrier safety operations and programs

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in the implementation, 
execution and administration of motor carrier safety operations and 
programs pursuant to section 31110 of title 49, United States Code, as 
amended by the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, 
$288,000,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the 
Mass Transit Account), together with advances and reimbursements 
received by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, the sum of 
which shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That funds 
available for implementation, execution, or administration of motor 
carrier safety operations and programs authorized under title 49, 
United States Code, shall not exceed total obligations of $288,000,000 
for ``Motor Carrier Safety Operations and Programs'' for fiscal year 
2020, of which $9,073,000 to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2022, is for the research and technology program.

                      motor carrier safety grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out sections 31102, 
31103, 31104, and 31313 of title 49, United States Code, as amended by 
the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, $388,800,000, to be 
derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit 
Account) and to remain available until expended:  Provided, That funds 
available for the implementation or execution of motor carrier safety 
programs shall not exceed total obligations of $388,800,000 in fiscal 
year 2020 for ``Motor Carrier Safety Grants'':  Provided further, That 
of the sums appropriated under this heading--
            (1) $308,700,000 shall be available for the motor carrier 
        safety assistance program;
            (2) $33,200,000 shall be available for the commercial 
        driver's license program implementation program;
            (3) $44,900,000 shall be available for the high priority 
        activities program; and
            (4) $2,000,000 shall be made available for commercial motor 
        vehicle operators grants, of which $1,000,000 is to be made 
        available from prior year unobligated contract authority 
        provided for Motor Carrier Safety grants in the Transportation 
        Equity Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 105-178), SAFETEA-
        LU (Public Law 109-59), or other appropriations or 
        authorization Acts.

 administrative provisions--federal motor carrier safety administration

    Sec. 130.  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration shall 
send notice of 49 CFR section 385.308 violations by certified mail, 
registered mail, or another manner of delivery, which records the 
receipt of the notice by the persons responsible for the violations.
    Sec. 131.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the Department of Transportation by this Act or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended to implement, administer, or enforce 
the requirements of section 31137 of title 49, United States Code, or 
any regulation issued by the Secretary pursuant to such section, with 
respect to the use of electronic logging devices by operators of 
commercial motor vehicles, as defined in section 31132(1) of such 
title, transporting livestock as defined in section 602 of the 
Emergency Livestock Feed Assistance Act of 1988 (7 U.S.C. 1471) or 
insects.
    Sec. 132.  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration shall 
update annual inspection regulations under Appendix G to subchapter B 
of chapter III of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, to require 
that rear underride guards be inspected annually.
    Sec. 133.  No funds made available by this or any other Act may be 
obligated or expended under the authority in 49 U.S.C. 31141(c) to 
review and issue a decision on a petition to preempt State meal and 
rest break laws that may differ from those in 49 CFR 395.
    Sec. 134.  Notwithstanding any restriction under part II of 
subtitle B of title V of the FAST Act, not later than 6 months after 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier 
Safety Administration shall make available on a public website 
information regarding analysis of violations developed under the 
agency's Compliance, Safety, Accountability program, consistent with 
the data that the agency made publicly available immediately before 
December 4, 2015.
    Sec. 135.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to promulgate or enforce a rule that eliminates the 30 minute rest 
break specified in part 395 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, 
as it was in operational effect on May 15, 2019.

             National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

                        operations and research

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary, 
with respect to traffic and highway safety authorized under chapter 301 
and part C of subtitle VI of title 49, United States Code, $214,073,440 
(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000), to remain available 
until September 30, 2021, except that $40,000,000 shall remain 
available through September 30, 2022, and no less than $18,500,000 
shall be for research on Automated Driving Systems, Advanced Driver 
Assistance Systems, and vehicle electronics and cybersecurity.

                        operations and research

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions 
of 23 U.S.C. 403, including behavioral research on Automated Driving 
Systems and Advanced Driver Assistance Systems and improving consumer 
responses to safety recalls, section 4011 of the Fixing America's 
Surface Transportation Act (Public Law 114-94), and chapter 303 of 
title 49, United States Code, $155,300,000, to be derived from the 
Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) and to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That none of the funds in this Act 
shall be available for the planning or execution of programs the total 
obligations for which, in fiscal year 2020, are in excess of 
$155,300,000:  Provided further, That of the sums appropriated under 
this heading--
            (1) $149,800,000 shall be for programs authorized under 23 
        U.S.C. 403, including behavioral research on Automated Driving 
        Systems and Advanced Driver Assistance Systems and improving 
        consumer responses to safety recalls, and section 4011 of the 
        Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act (Public Law 114-
        94); and
            (2) $5,500,000 shall be for the National Driver Register 
        authorized under chapter 303 of title 49, United States Code:
  Provided further, That within the $155,300,000 obligation limitation 
for operations and research, $20,000,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2021, and shall be in addition to the amount of any 
limitation imposed on obligations for future years.

                     highway traffic safety grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out provisions of 
23 U.S.C. 402, 404, and 405, and section 4001(a)(6) of the Fixing 
America's Surface Transportation Act, to remain available until 
expended, $623,017,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund 
(other than the Mass Transit Account):  Provided, That none of the 
funds in this Act shall be available for the planning or execution of 
programs for which the total obligations in fiscal year 2020 are in 
excess of $623,017,000 for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 402, 
404, and 405, and section 4001(a)(6) of the Fixing America's Surface 
Transportation Act:  Provided further, That of the sums appropriated 
under this heading--
            (1) $279,800,000 shall be for ``Highway Safety Programs'' 
        under 23 U.S.C. 402;
            (2) $285,900,000 shall be for ``National Priority Safety 
        Programs'' under 23 U.S.C. 405;
            (3) $30,500,000 shall be for the ``High Visibility 
        Enforcement Program'' under 23 U.S.C. 404; and
            (4) $26,817,000 shall be for ``Administrative Expenses'' 
        under section 4001(a)(6) of the Fixing America's Surface 
        Transportation Act:
  Provided further, That none of these funds shall be used for 
construction, rehabilitation, or remodeling costs, or for office 
furnishings and fixtures for State, local or private buildings or 
structures:  Provided further, That not to exceed $500,000 of the funds 
made available for ``National Priority Safety Programs'' under 23 
U.S.C. 405 for ``Impaired Driving Countermeasures'' (as described in 
subsection (d) of that section) shall be available for technical 
assistance to the States:  Provided further, That with respect to the 
``Transfers'' provision under 23 U.S.C. 405(a)(8), any amounts 
transferred to increase the amounts made available under section 402 
shall include the obligation authority for such amounts:  Provided 
further, That the Administrator shall notify the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations of any exercise of the authority granted 
under the previous proviso or under 23 U.S.C. 405(a)(8) within 5 days.

      administrative provisions--national highway traffic safety 
                             administration

    Sec. 140.  An additional $130,000 shall be made available to the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, out of the amount 
limited for section 402 of title 23, United States Code, to pay for 
travel and related expenses for State management reviews and to pay for 
core competency development training and related expenses for highway 
safety staff.
    Sec. 141.  The limitations on obligations for the programs of the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration set in this Act shall 
not apply to obligations for which obligation authority was made 
available in previous public laws but only to the extent that the 
obligation authority has not lapsed or been used.
    Sec. 142.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to mandate global positioning system (GPS) tracking in private 
passenger motor vehicles without providing full and appropriate 
consideration of privacy concerns under 5 U.S.C. chapter 5, subchapter 
II.
    Sec. 143.  In addition to the amounts made available under the 
heading, ``Operations and Research (Liquidation of Contract 
Authorization) (Limitation on Obligations) (Highway Trust Fund)'' for 
carrying out the provisions of section 403 of title 23, United States 
Code, $17,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, shall 
be made available to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 
from the general fund:  Provided, That of the sums provided under this 
provision--
     (1) not to exceed $7,000,000 shall be available to provide funding 
for grants, pilot program activities, and innovative solutions to 
reduce impaired-driving fatalities in collaboration with eligible 
entities under section 403 of title 23, United States Code; and
    (2) not to exceed $10,000,000 shall be available to continue a high 
visibility enforcement paid-media campaign regarding highway-rail grade 
crossing safety in collaboration with the Federal Railroad 
Administration.
    Sec. 144.  An additional $500,000 shall be made available to the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration for a study to identify 
and examine child-specific safety considerations in vehicles equipped 
with Automated Driving Systems, particularly those that can be operated 
bi-directionally and offer unconventional seating. The study should 
also incorporate safety considerations for child restraint system (CRS) 
installation and promoting CRS usage for ride-share programs, and the 
risks associated with unattended child passengers in Automated Driving 
Systems-equipped vehicles. Upon completion of this study, the National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administration shall submit to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations a report containing its findings, 
including detailing how the agency is coordinating with manufacturers 
to ensure children are protected in vehicles equipped with Automated 
Driving Systems.
    Sec. 145.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act or any other Act may be used to finalize or 
enforce a proposed rule published by the National Highway Traffic 
Safety Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency on August 
2, 2018, entitled ``The Safer Affordable Fuel-Efficient Vehicles Rule'' 
or any other successor rule.
    Sec. 146.  None of the funds in this Act or any other Act shall be 
used to enforce the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 405(a)(9).

                    Federal Railroad Administration

                         safety and operations

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, $226,698,000, of which $20,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended.

                   railroad research and development

    For necessary expenses for railroad research and development, 
$41,600,000, to remain available until expended.

       railroad rehabilitation and improvement financing program

    The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to issue direct loans 
and loan guarantees pursuant to sections 501 through 504 of the 
Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (Public Law 
94-210), as amended, such authority shall exist as long as any such 
direct loan or loan guarantee is outstanding.

           federal-state partnership for state of good repair

    For necessary expenses related to Federal-State Partnership for 
State of Good Repair Grants as authorized by section 24911 of title 49, 
United States Code, $350,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That the Secretary may withhold up to one percent of the 
amount provided under this heading for the costs of award and project 
management oversight of grants carried out under section 24911 of title 
49, United States Code:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
issue the Notice of Funding Opportunity for funds provided under this 
heading consistent with section 24911 of title 49, United States Code, 
no later than 30 days after enactment of this Act:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary shall review all applications received in response 
to the Notice of Funding Opportunity required in the previous proviso:  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall announce the selection of 
projects to receive awards for the funds described in the previous two 
provisos no later than 180 days after enactment of this Act.

        consolidated rail infrastructure and safety improvements

    For necessary expenses related to Consolidated Rail Infrastructure 
and Safety Improvements Grants, as authorized by section 22907 of title 
49, United States Code, $350,000,000 (increased by $1,000,000) (reduced 
by $1,000,000), to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of 
the sums appropriated under this heading--
            (1) $40,000,000 shall be available for projects eligible 
        under section 22907(c)(5) of title 49, United States Code, for 
        projects for commuter authorities, as defined as section 
        24102(2) of title 49, United States Code, that experienced at 
        least one accident investigated by the National Transportation 
        Safety Board between January 1, 2008, and December 31, 2018; 
        and
            (2) $55,000,000 shall be available for projects eligible 
        under section 22907(c)(2) of title 49, United States Code, that 
        require the acquisition of rights-of-way, track, or track 
        structure to support the development of new intercity passenger 
        rail service routes:
  Provided further, That section 22905(f) of title 49, United States 
Code, shall not apply to projects for commuter authorities in the first 
proviso:  Provided further, That section 22905(f) of title 49, United 
States Code, shall not apply to projects for the implementation of 
positive train control systems otherwise eligible under section 
22907(c)(1) of title 49, United States Code:  Provided further, That 
amounts available under this heading for projects selected for commuter 
rail passenger transportation may be transferred by the Secretary, 
after selection, to the appropriate agencies to be administered in 
accordance with chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code:  Provided 
further, That for amounts available under this heading eligible 
recipients under section 22907(b) of title 49, United States Code, 
shall include any non-profit association representing Class II 
railroads and Class III railroads (as those terms are defined in 
section 20102 of title 49, United States Code) and any holding company 
of a Class II railroad or Class III railroad (as those terms are 
defined in section 20102 of title 49, United States Code):  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall not limit eligible projects from 
consideration for funding for planning, engineering, environmental, 
construction, and design elements of the same project in the same 
application:  Provided further, That unobligated balances remaining 
after 4 years from the date of enactment may be used for any eligible 
project under section 22907(c) of title 49, United States Code:  
Provided further, That the Secretary may withhold up to one percent of 
the amount provided under this heading for the costs of award and 
project management oversight of grants carried out under section 22907 
of title 49, United States Code:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall issue the Notice of Funding Opportunity for funds provided under 
this heading no later than 30 days after enactment of this Act:  
Provided further, That such Notice of Funding Opportunity shall require 
application submissions 60 days after the publishing of such Notice:  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall announce the selection of 
projects to receive awards for the funds in the previous two provisos 
no later than 180 days after enactment of this Act.

           magnetic levitation technology deployment program

    For necessary expenses related to the deployment of magnetic 
levitation transportation projects, consistent with language in 1307(a) 
through (c) of Public Law 109-59, as amended by section 102 of Public 
Law 110-244 (section 322 of title 23, United States Code), $10,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.

     northeast corridor grants to the national railroad passenger 
                              corporation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation for activities associated with 
the Northeast Corridor as authorized by section 11101(a) of the Fixing 
America's Surface Transportation Act (division A of Public Law 114-94), 
$700,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Secretary may retain up to one-half of 1 percent of the funds provided 
under both this heading and the ``National Network Grants to the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation'' heading to fund the costs of 
project management and oversight of activities authorized by section 
11101(c) of division A of Public Law 114-94:  Provided further, That in 
addition to the project management oversight funds authorized under 
section 11101(c) of division A of Public Law 114-94, the Secretary may 
retain up to an additional $5,000,000 of the funds provided under this 
heading to fund expenses associated with the Northeast Corridor 
Commission established under section 24905 of title 49, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That of the amounts made available under this 
heading and the ``National Network Grants to the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation'' heading, not less than $50,000,000 shall be 
made available to bring Amtrak-served facilities and stations into 
compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act.

 national network grants to the national railroad passenger corporation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation for activities associated with 
the National Network as authorized by section 11101(b) of the Fixing 
America's Surface Transportation Act (division A of Public Law 114-94), 
$1,291,600,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Secretary may retain up to an additional $2,000,000 of the funds 
provided under this heading to fund expenses associated with the State-
Supported Route Committee established under section 24712 of title 49, 
United States Code.

       administrative provisions--federal railroad administration

    Sec. 150.  None of the funds provided to the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation may be used to fund any overtime costs in excess 
of $35,000 for any individual employee:  Provided, That the President 
of Amtrak may waive the cap set in the previous proviso for specific 
employees when the President of Amtrak determines such a cap poses a 
risk to the safety and operational efficiency of the system:  Provided 
further, That the President of Amtrak shall report to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations within 60 days of enactment of this 
Act, a summary of all overtime payments incurred by the Corporation for 
2019 and the three prior calendar years:  Provided further, That such 
summary shall include the total number of employees that received 
waivers and the total overtime payments the Corporation paid to those 
employees receiving waivers for each month for 2019 and for the three 
prior calendar years.
    Sec. 151.  None of the funds provided to the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation under the headings ``Northeast Corridor Grants to 
the National Railroad Passenger Corporation'' and ``National Network 
Grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation'' may be used to 
reduce the size of the Amtrak Police Department below the staffing 
level on May 1, 2019.

                     Federal Transit Administration

                        administrative expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Federal Transit 
Administration's programs authorized by chapter 53 of title 49, United 
States Code, $117,000,000, of which $15,000,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2021, and up to $1,000,000 shall be available to 
carry out the provisions of section 5326 of such title:  Provided, That 
upon submission to the Congress of the fiscal year 2021 President's 
budget, the Secretary of Transportation shall transmit to Congress the 
annual report on Capital Investment Grants, including proposed 
allocations for fiscal year 2021.

                         transit formula grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in the Federal Public 
Transportation Assistance Program in this account, and for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions of 49 U.S.C. 5305, 
5307, 5310, 5311, 5312, 5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337, 5339, and 
5340, as amended by the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, 
section 20005(b) of Public Law 112-141, and section 3006(b) of the 
Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, $10,800,000,000, to be 
derived from the Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust Fund and to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That funds available for 
the implementation or execution of programs authorized under 49 U.S.C. 
5305, 5307, 5310, 5311, 5312, 5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337, 5339, 
and 5340, as amended by the Fixing America's Surface Transportation 
Act, section 20005(b) of Public Law 112-141, and section 3006(b) of the 
Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, shall not exceed total 
obligations of $10,150,348,462 in fiscal year 2020:  Provided further, 
That the Federal share of the cost of activities carried out under 49 
U.S.C. section 5312 shall not exceed 80 percent, except that if there 
is substantial public interest or benefit, the Secretary may approve a 
greater Federal share:  Provided further, That in addition to the 
amounts appropriated for purposes of 49 U.S.C 5338(e), not less than 2 
percent of the funds appropriated or available for the purposes of 49 
U.S.C 5338(f) shall be available for the purposes of 49 U.S.C. 5338(e).

                     transit infrastructure grants

    For an additional amount for buses and bus facilities grants under 
section 5339 of title 49, United States Code, state of good repair 
grants under section 5337 of such title, the bus testing facilities 
under sections 5312 and 5318 of such title, and for grants to areas of 
persistent poverty, $750,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000), to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That of the sums provided under 
this heading--
            (1) $389,000,000 (reduced by $6,000,000) shall be available 
        for the buses and bus facilities competitive grants as 
        authorized under section 5339(b) of such title:  Provided 
        further, That the minimum grant award shall be not less than 
        $1,000,000;
            (2) $94,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by 
        $6,000,000) shall be available for the low or no emission 
        grants as authorized under section 5339(c) of such title:  
        Provided further, That the minimum grant award shall be not 
        less than $1,500,000;
            (3) $250,000,000 shall be available for the state of good 
        repair grants as authorized under section 5337 of such title;
            (4) $1,000,000 shall be available for the bus testing 
        facility as authorized under section 5318 of such title;
            (5) Notwithstanding section 5318(a) of such title, 
        $6,000,000 shall be available for the operation and maintenance 
        of bus testing facilities by institutions of higher education 
        selected pursuant to section 5312(h); and
            (6) $10,000,000 shall be available for competitive grants 
        to eligible entities to assist areas of persistent poverty:
  Provided further, That the Secretary shall enter into a contract or 
cooperative agreement with, or make a grant to, each institution of 
higher education selected pursuant to section 5312(h) of such title, to 
operate and maintain a facility to conduct the testing of low or no 
emission vehicle new bus models using the standards established 
pursuant to section 5318(e)(2) of such title:  Provided further, That 
the term ``low or no emission vehicle'' has the meaning given the term 
in section 5312(e)(6) of such title:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall pay 80 percent of the cost of testing a low or no 
emission vehicle new bus model at each selected institution of higher 
education:  Provided further, That the entity having the vehicle tested 
shall pay 20 percent of the cost of testing:  Provided further, That a 
low or no emission vehicle new bus model tested that receives a passing 
aggregate test score in accordance with the standards established under 
section 5318(e)(2) of such title, shall be deemed to be in compliance 
with the requirements of section 5318(e) of such title:  Provided 
further, That areas of persistent poverty means any county that has 
consistently had 20 percent or more of the population living in poverty 
over the 30 years preceding the date of enactment of this Act, as 
measured by the 1990 and 2000 decennial census and the most recent 
Small Area Income and Poverty Estimates, or any census tract with a 
poverty rate of at least 20 percent as measured by the 2013-2017 five-
year data series available from the American Community Survey of the 
Census Bureau, or any territory or possession of the United States:  
Provided further, That grants shall be for planning, engineering, or 
development of technical, or financing plans for projects eligible 
under chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code:  Provided further, 
That eligible entities are those defined as eligible recipients or 
subrecipients under section 5307, 5310, or 5311 of title 49 United 
States Code, and are in areas of persistent poverty:  Provided further, 
That the Federal Transit Administration should complete outreach to 
such counties and the Departments of Transportation within applicable 
States via personal contact, webinars, web materials and other 
appropriate methods determined by the Administrator:  Provided further, 
That State departments of transportation may apply on behalf of 
eligible entities within their States:  Provided further, That the 
Federal Transit Administration should encourage grantees to work with 
non-profits or other entities of their choosing in order to develop 
planning, technical, engineering, or financing plans:  Provided 
further, That the Federal Transit Administration should encourage 
grantees to partner with non-profits that can assist with making 
projects low or no emissions:  Provided further, That projects funded 
as a result of activities funded under this heading shall be for not 
less than 90 percent of the net total project cost:  Provided further, 
That amounts made available by this heading shall be derived from the 
general fund:  Provided further, That the amounts made available under 
this heading shall not be subject to any limitation on obligations for 
transit programs set forth in any Act.

                   technical assistance and training

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5314, $5,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021, of which not less than 
$2,500,000 (increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) shall be 
for a cooperative agreement through which the Federal Transit 
Administration assists transit recipients with frontline workforce 
development and standards based training in maintenance and operations 
through an agreement with a national nonprofit organization with a 
demonstrated capacity to develop and provide such programs though labor 
management partnerships and apprenticeships:  Provided, That the 
assistance provided under this heading does not duplicate the 
activities of 49 U.S.C. 5311(b) or 49 U.S.C. 5312.

                       capital investment grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out fixed guideway capital 
investment grants under section 5309 of title 49, United States Code, 
and section 3005(b) of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, 
$2,301,785,760, to remain available until September 30, 2024:  
Provided, That of the amounts made available under this heading, 
$1,841,428,608 (reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) shall 
be obligated by December 31, 2021, but shall remain available until 
September 30, 2024, as specified under this heading:  Provided further, 
That of the amounts made available under this heading--
            (1) $795,290,221 shall be available for fixed guideway 
        projects that have executed full funding grant agreements, 
        authorized under subsection (d) of section 5309;
            (2) $702,709,779 shall be available for new projects 
        authorized under 5309(d) of title 49, United States Code;
            (3) $300,000,000 shall be available for projects authorized 
        under section 5309(e) of title 49, United States Code;
            (4) $430,768,910 shall be available for projects authorized 
        under section 5309(h) of title 49, United States Code; and
            (5) $50,000,000 shall be available for projects authorized 
        under section 3005(b) of the Fixing America's Surface 
        Transportation Act:
  Provided further, That the Secretary shall continue to administer the 
capital investment grants program in accordance with the procedural and 
substantive requirements of section 5309 of title 49, United States 
Code, and to administer the Expedited Delivery Pilot Program with the 
procedural and substantive requirements of section 3005(b) of the 
Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act:  Provided further, That 
any funds remaining from the $1,841,428,608 that are required to be 
obligated by the first proviso under this heading and that remain 
available on December 31, 2021 shall be reallocated to applicants with 
projects in Engineering on that date, as defined by 49 U.S.C. 
5309(d)(2) and (e)(2) for activities eligible under 49 U.S.C. 5309(b), 
and upon reallocation shall be available for immediate obligation:  
Provided further, That each applicant's share of such funds shall be 
distributed to the projects in Engineering based on the individual 
project's requested Capital Investment Grant amount as a percentage of 
the total Capital Investment Grant funds requested by the group of 
projects in Engineering under subsections (d)(2) and (e)(2) of 49 
United States Code 5309 on December 31, 2021:  Provided further, That 
not later than 90 days after enactment of this Act, the Federal Transit 
Administration shall provide the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations a list of projects to which the agency expects to award 
a full-funding grant agreement in fiscal year 2020, and upon submission 
of the fiscal year 2021 budget, the Federal Transit Administration 
shall provide such information for 2021.

      grants to the washington metropolitan area transit authority

    For grants to the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority as 
authorized under section 601 of division B of Public Law 110-432, 
$150,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of Transportation shall approve grants for capital and 
preventive maintenance expenditures for the Washington Metropolitan 
Area Transit Authority only after receiving and reviewing a request for 
each specific project:  Provided further, That prior to approving such 
grants, the Secretary shall certify that the Washington Metropolitan 
Area Transit Authority is making progress to improve its safety 
management system in response to the Federal Transit Administration's 
2015 safety management inspection:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall determine that the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit 
Authority has placed the highest priority on those investments that 
will improve the safety of the system before approving such grants:  
Provided further, That the Secretary, in order to ensure safety 
throughout the rail system, may waive the requirements of section 
601(e)(1) of division B of Public Law 110-432.

       administrative provisions--federal transit administration

    Sec. 160.  The limitations on obligations for the programs of the 
Federal Transit Administration shall not apply to any authority under 
49 U.S.C. 5338, previously made available for obligation, or to any 
other authority previously made available for obligation.
    Sec. 161.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated or limited by this Act under the heading ``Fixed Guideway 
Capital Investment'' of the Federal Transit Administration for projects 
specified in this Act or identified in reports accompanying this Act 
not obligated by September 30, 2024, and other recoveries, shall be 
directed to projects eligible to use the funds for the purposes for 
which they were originally provided.
    Sec. 162.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
appropriated before October 1, 2018, under any section of chapter 53 of 
title 49, United States Code, that remain available for expenditure, 
may be transferred to and administered under the most recent 
appropriation heading for any such section.
    Sec. 163.  In the first proviso under the title ``Capital 
Investment Grants'' in the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018, 
Public Law 115-141, strike, ``December 31, 2019'' and insert, 
``September 30, 2020''.
    Sec. 164.  No funds in this or any other Act shall be used--
     (1) to adjust apportionments or withhold funds from apportionments 
pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 9503(e)(4);
    (2) to request or require any project to have a maximum Capital 
Investment Grant contribution lower than 50 percent of the total 
project cost;
    (3) to determine a maximum Capital Investment Grant contribution 
for projects defined under 49 U.S.C. 5309(a)(2) or 49 U.S.C. 5309(a)(5) 
until at least 180 days after a project has entered into the 
Engineering phase; and
    (4) by the Federal Transit Administration when making a 
determination about whether a project sponsor's cost estimate is 
reasonable, to require a probability higher than 50 percent that a 
project can be completed within that cost estimate:  Provided, That 
this proviso only applies to those applications that are in the 
``project development'' phase as defined under subsection (d)(1), 
(e)(1), or (h)(2) of 49 U.S.C. 5309, or the ``Engineering'' phase as 
defined under subsection (d)(2) or (e)(2) of 49 U.S.C. 5309 on the date 
of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 165.  An eligible recipient of a grant under 5339(c) may 
submit an application in partnership with other entities, including a 
transit vehicle manufacturer, that intend to participate in the 
implementation of a project under 5339(c) of title 49, United States 
Code and a project awarded with such partnership shall be treated as 
satisfying the requirement for a competitive procurement under section 
5325(a) of title 49, United States Code, for the named entity.

             Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation

    The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is hereby 
authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available to the Corporation, and in accord with 
law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations, as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying 
out the programs set forth in the Corporation's budget for the current 
fiscal year.

                       operations and maintenance

                    (harbor maintenance trust fund)

    For necessary expenses to conduct the operations, maintenance, and 
capital asset renewal activities on those portions of the Saint 
Lawrence Seaway owned, operated, and maintained by the Saint Lawrence 
Seaway Development Corporation, $40,000,000, to be derived from the 
Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 99-662:  
Provided, That of the amounts made available under this heading, not 
less than $16,000,000 shall be used on capital asset renewal 
activities.

                        Maritime Administration

                       maritime security program

    For necessary expenses to maintain and preserve a U.S.-flag 
merchant fleet to serve the national security needs of the United 
States, $300,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                        operations and training

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of operations and training activities 
authorized by law, $154,442,000:  Provided, That of the sums 
appropriated under this heading--
            (1) $77,944,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
        2021 for the operations of the United States Merchant Marine 
        Academy;
            (2) $5,225,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        the maintenance and repair, equipment, and capital improvements 
        at the United States Merchant Marine Academy;
            (3) $3,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
        2021 for the Maritime Environment and Technology Assistance 
        program authorized under section 50307 of title 46, United 
        States Code; and
            (4) $15,000,000, shall remain available until expended for 
        the Short Sea Transportation Program (America's Marine 
        Highways) to make grants for the purposes authorized under 
        sections 55601(b)(1) and (3) of title 46, United States Code:
  Provided further, That not later than 120 days after enactment of 
this Act, the Administrator of the Maritime Administration shall 
transmit to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations the 
annual report on sexual assault and sexual harassment at the United 
States Merchant Marine Academy as required pursuant to section 3507 of 
Public Law 110-417:  Provided further, That available balances under 
this heading for the Short Sea Transportation Program (America's Marine 
Highways) from prior year recoveries shall be available to carry out 
activities authorized under sections 55601(b)(1) and (3) of title 46, 
United States Code:  Provided further, That from funds provided under 
(3) and (4) of the first proviso, the Secretary of Transportation shall 
make grants no later than 180 days after enactment of this Act in such 
amounts as the Secretary determines:  Provided further, That any 
unobligated balances available from previous appropriations for 
programs and activities supporting State Maritime Academies shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriations for ``Maritime 
Administration, State Maritime Academy Operations'' and shall be made 
available for the same purposes.

                    state maritime academy operations

    For necessary expenses of operations, support and training 
activities for State Maritime Academies, $345,200,000:  Provided, That 
of the sums appropriated under this heading--
            (1) $33,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall 
        be for maintenance, repair, life extension, and capacity 
        improvement of National Defense Reserve Fleet training ships in 
        support of State Maritime Academies, of which up to $8,060,000, 
        to remain available until expended, shall be for expenses 
        related to training mariners for costs associated with training 
        vessel sharing pursuant to 46 U.S.C. 51504(g)(3) for costs 
        associated with mobilizing, operating and demobilizing the 
        vessel, including travel costs for students, faculty and crew, 
        the costs of the general agent, crew costs, fuel, insurance, 
        operational fees, and vessel hire costs, as determined by the 
        Secretary;
            (2) $300,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall 
        be for the National Security Multi-Mission Vessel Program, 
        including funds for construction, planning, administration, and 
        design of school ships;
            (3) $2,400,000 shall remain available through September 30, 
        2021, for the Student Incentive Program;
            (4) $3,800,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        training ship fuel assistance; and
            (5) $6,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
        2021, for direct payments for State Maritime Academies.

                     assistance to small shipyards

    To make grants to qualified shipyards as authorized under section 
54101 of title 46, United States Code, as amended by Public Law 113-
281, $20,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                             ship disposal

    For necessary expenses related to the disposal of obsolete vessels 
in the National Defense Reserve Fleet of the Maritime Administration, 
$5,000,000, to remain available until expended.

          maritime guaranteed loan (title xi) program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed loan 
program, $3,000,000, which shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriations for ``Operations and Training'', Maritime 
Administration.

                port infrastructure development program

    To make grants to improve port facilities as authorized under 
section 50302 of title 46, United States Code, $225,000,000 to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That projects eligible for funding 
provided under this heading shall be projects for coastal seaports or 
Great Lakes ports:  Provided further, That the Maritime Administration 
shall distribute funds provided under this heading as discretionary 
grants to port authorities or commissions or their subdivisions and 
agents under existing authority, as well as to a State or political 
subdivision of a State or local government, a tribal government, a 
public agency or publicly chartered authority established by one or 
more States, a special purpose district with a transportation function, 
a multistate or multijurisdictional group of entities, or a lead entity 
described above jointly with a private entity or group of private 
entities:  Provided further, That projects eligible for funding 
provided under this heading shall be either within the boundary of a 
port, or outside the boundary of a port, and directly related to port 
operations or to an intermodal connection to a port that will improve 
the safety, efficiency, or reliability of the movement of goods into, 
out of, around, or within a port, as well as the unloading and loading 
of cargo at a port:  Provided further, That the Federal share of the 
costs for which an expenditure is made under this heading shall be up 
to 80 percent:  Provided further, That not to exceed 2 percent of the 
funds appropriated under this heading shall be available for necessary 
costs of grant administration:  Provided further, That the proceeds of 
Federal credit assistance under chapter 6 of title 23, United States 
Code or sections 501 through 504 of the Railroad and Revitalization and 
Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (Public Law 94-210), as amended, shall be 
considered to be part of the non-Federal share of project costs if the 
loan is repayable from non-Federal funds, unless otherwise requested by 
the project sponsor:  Provided further, That a grant award made under 
this heading may not be used to purchase fully-automated cargo handling 
equipment or to otherwise facilitate fully-automated cargo handling:  
Provided further, That for the purposes of the previous proviso, fully-
automated cargo handling means using equipment that is remotely 
operated or remotely monitored with or without the exercise of human 
intervention or control.

           administrative provisions--maritime administration

    Sec. 170.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, in 
addition to any existing authority, the Maritime Administration is 
authorized to furnish utilities and services and make necessary repairs 
in connection with any lease, contract, or occupancy involving 
Government property under control of the Maritime Administration:  
Provided, That payments received therefor shall be credited to the 
appropriation charged with the cost thereof and shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That rental payments under any such 
lease, contract, or occupancy for items other than such utilities, 
services, or repairs shall be covered into the Treasury as 
miscellaneous receipts.

         Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration

                          operational expenses

    For necessary operational expenses of the Pipeline and Hazardous 
Materials Safety Administration, $23,710,000, of which $1,500,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of Transportation shall issue final rules as required under 
section 5(f), section 21(c), and section 23(a) of the Pipeline Safety, 
Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 (Public Law 112-90) 
no later than 180 days after enactment of this Act:  Provided further, 
That no later than 90 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
of Transportation shall initiate a rulemaking on automatic and remote-
controlled shut-off valves and hazardous liquid pipeline facilities 
leak detection systems as required under section 4 and section 8 of the 
Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 
(Public Law 112-90), respectively, and shall issue a final rule no 
later than one year after enactment of this Act.

                       hazardous materials safety

    For expenses necessary to discharge the hazardous materials safety 
functions of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety 
Administration, $61,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2022:  Provided, That up to $800,000 in fees collected under 49 U.S.C. 
5108(g) shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury as 
offsetting receipts:  Provided further, That there may be credited to 
this appropriation, to be available until expended, funds received from 
States, counties, municipalities, other public authorities, and private 
sources for expenses incurred for training, for reports publication and 
dissemination, and for travel expenses incurred in performance of 
hazardous materials exemptions and approvals functions.

                            pipeline safety

                         (pipeline safety fund)

                    (oil spill liability trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to carry out a pipeline safety program, as 
authorized by 49 U.S.C. 60107, and to discharge the pipeline program 
responsibilities of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $168,000,000 
(increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000), to remain available 
until September 30, 2022, of which $23,000,000 shall be derived from 
the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund; of which $137,000,000 shall be 
derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund; and of which $8,000,000 shall be 
derived from fees collected under 49 U.S.C. 60302 and deposited in the 
Underground Natural Gas Storage Facility Safety Account for the purpose 
of carrying out 49 U.S.C. 60141:  Provided, That not less than 
$1,058,000 of the funds provided under this heading shall be for the 
One-Call State grant program.

                     emergency preparedness grants

                     (emergency preparedness fund)

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Emergency Preparedness 
Grants program, not more than $28,318,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2022, from amounts made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(h), 
and 5128(b) and (c):  Provided, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 
5116(h)(4), not more than 4 percent of the amounts made available from 
this account shall be available to pay administrative costs:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 5128(b) and (c) and the current 
year obligation limitation, prior year recoveries recognized in the 
current year shall be available to develop a hazardous materials 
response training curriculum for emergency responders, including 
response activities for the transportation of crude oil, ethanol and 
other flammable liquids by rail, consistent with National Fire 
Protection Association standards, and to make such training available 
through an electronic format:  Provided further, That the prior year 
recoveries made available under this heading shall also be available to 
carry out 49 U.S.C. 5116(a)(1)(C), 5116(h), 5116(i), and 5107(e).

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General to 
carry out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $96,700,000 (increased by $1,000,000) (increased by 
$1,000,000):  Provided, That the Inspector General shall have all 
necessary authority, in carrying out the duties specified in the 
Inspector General Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate 
allegations of fraud, including false statements to the government (18 
U.S.C. 1001), by any person or entity that is subject to regulation by 
the Department of Transportation.

            General Provisions--Department of Transportation

    Sec. 180. (a) During the current fiscal year, applicable 
appropriations to the Department of Transportation shall be available 
for maintenance and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft; purchase of liability insurance for motor 
vehicles operating in foreign countries on official department 
business; and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 
U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    (b) During the current fiscal year, applicable appropriations to 
the Department and its operating administrations shall be available for 
the purchase, maintenance, operation, and deployment of unmanned 
aircraft systems that advance the Department's, or its operating 
administrations', missions.
    (c) Any unmanned aircraft system purchased or procured by the 
Department prior to the enactment of this Act shall be deemed 
authorized.
    Sec. 181.  Appropriations contained in this Act for the Department 
of Transportation shall be available for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the rate for an Executive Level IV.
    Sec. 182. (a) No recipient of funds made available in this Act 
shall disseminate personal information (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 
2725(3)) obtained by a State department of motor vehicles in connection 
with a motor vehicle record as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1), except as 
provided in 18 U.S.C. 2721 for a use permitted under 18 U.S.C. 2721.
    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary shall not 
withhold funds provided in this Act for any grantee if a State is in 
noncompliance with this provision.
    Sec. 183. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
made available for salaries and expenses of more than 110 political and 
Presidential appointees in the Department of Transportation:  Provided, 
That none of the personnel covered by this provision may be assigned on 
temporary detail outside the Department of Transportation.
    (b) The limitation in subsection (a) shall increase to 125 
political and Presidential appointees beginning on the date on which 
the Secretary announces the selection of projects to receive awards for 
each of the following competitive grants, with respect to funds made 
available for fiscal year 2019 for such grants--
            (1) Capital investment grants as authorized and as funded 
        under the heading ``Office of the Secretary--National 
        Infrastructure Investments'' by Public Law 116-6;
            (2) Grants-In-Aid for Airports as authorized by subchapter 
        1 of chapter 471 and subchapter 1 of chapter 475 of title 49, 
        United States Code, and as funded under the heading ``Federal 
        Aviation Administration--Grants-in-Aid for Airports'' by Public 
        Law 116-6;
            (3) Federal-State Partnership for State of Good Repair 
        Grants, as authorized by section 24911 of title 49, United 
        States Code, and as funded under the heading ``Federal Railroad 
        Administration--Federal-State Partnership for State of Good 
        Repair'' by Public Law 116-6;
            (4) Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety 
        Improvements Grants, as authorized by section 22907 of title 
        49, United States Code, and as funded under the heading 
        ``Federal Railroad Administration--Consolidated Rail 
        Infrastructure and Safety Improvements'' by Public Law 116-6;
            (5) Restoration and Enhancement Grants, as authorized by 
        section 22908 of title 49, United States Code, and as funded 
        under the heading ``Federal Railroad Administration--
        Restoration and Enhancement'' by Public Law 116-6;
            (6) Magnetic levitation transportation projects consistent 
        with section 322 of title 23, United States Code, and as funded 
        under the heading ``Federal Railroad Administration--Magnetic 
        Levitation Technology Deployment Program'' by Public Law 116-6;
            (7) Buses and bus facilities competitive grants as 
        authorized under section 5339(b) of title 49, United States 
        Code, and as funded under the heading ``Federal Transit 
        Administration--Transit Infrastructure Grants'' by Public Law 
        116-6;
            (8) Low or no emission grants, as authorized under section 
        5339(c) of title 49, United States Code, and as funded under 
        the heading ``Federal Transit Administration--Transit 
        Infrastructure Grants'' by Public Law 116-6;
            (9) Grants to qualified shipyards, as authorized under 
        section 54101 of title 46, United States Code, and as funded 
        under the heading ``Maritime Administration--Assistance to 
        Small Shipyards'' by Public Law 116-6; and
            (10) Grants to improve port facilities, as authorized under 
        section 50302 of title 46, United States Code, and as funded 
        under the heading ``Maritime Administration--Port 
        Infrastructure Development Program'' by Public Law 116-6.
    Sec. 184.  Funds received by the Federal Highway Administration and 
Federal Railroad Administration from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for 
training may be credited respectively to the Federal Highway 
Administration's ``Federal-Aid Highways'' account and to the Federal 
Railroad Administration's ``Safety and Operations'' account, except for 
State rail safety inspectors participating in training pursuant to 49 
U.S.C. 20105.
    Sec. 185. (a) None of the funds provided in this Act to the 
Department of Transportation may be used to make a loan, loan 
guarantee, line of credit, or discretionary grant unless the Secretary 
of Transportation notifies the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations not less than 3 full business days before any project 
competitively selected to receive any discretionary grant award, letter 
of intent, loan commitment, loan guarantee commitment, line of credit 
commitment, or full funding grant agreement is announced by the 
Department or its modal administrations:  Provided, That the Secretary 
gives concurrent notification to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations for any ``quick release'' of funds from the emergency 
relief program:  Provided further, That no notification shall involve 
funds that are not available for obligation.
    (b) In addition to the notification required in subsection (a), 
none of the funds made available in this Act to the Department of 
Transportation may be used to make a loan, loan guarantee, line of 
credit, cooperative agreement or discretionary grant unless the 
Secretary of Transportation provides the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations a comprehensive list of all such loans, loan guarantees, 
lines of credit, cooperative agreement or discretionary grants that 
will be announced not less the 3 full business days before such 
announcement:  Provided, That the requirement to provide a list in this 
subsection does not apply to any ``quick release'' of funds from the 
emergency relief program:  Provided further, That no list shall involve 
funds that are not available for obligation.
    Sec. 186.  Rebates, refunds, incentive payments, minor fees and 
other funds received by the Department of Transportation from travel 
management centers, charge card programs, the subleasing of building 
space, and miscellaneous sources are to be credited to appropriations 
of the Department of Transportation and allocated to elements of the 
Department of Transportation using fair and equitable criteria and such 
funds shall be available until expended.
    Sec. 187.  Amounts made available in this or any prior Act that the 
Secretary determines represent improper payments by the Department of 
Transportation to a third-party contractor under a financial assistance 
award, which are recovered pursuant to law, shall be available--
            (1) to reimburse the actual expenses incurred by the 
        Department of Transportation in recovering improper payments:  
        Provided, That amounts made available in this Act shall be 
        available until expended; and
            (2) to pay contractors for services provided in recovering 
        improper payments or contractor support in the implementation 
        of the Improper Payments Information Act of 2002, as amended by 
        the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act of 2010 and 
        Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Improvement Act of 
        2012, and Fraud Reduction and Data Analytics Act of 2015:  
        Provided, That amounts in excess of that required for 
        paragraphs (1) and (2)--
                    (A) shall be credited to and merged with the 
                appropriation from which the improper payments were 
                made, and shall be available for the purposes and 
                period for which such appropriations are available:  
                Provided further, That where specific project or 
                accounting information associated with the improper 
                payment or payments is not readily available, the 
                Secretary may credit an appropriate account, which 
                shall be available for the purposes and period 
                associated with the account so credited; or
                    (B) if no such appropriation remains available, 
                shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous 
                receipts:  Provided further, That prior to depositing 
                such recovery in the Treasury, the Secretary shall 
                notify the House and Senate Committees on 
                Appropriations of the amount and reasons for such 
                transfer:  Provided further, That for purposes of this 
                section, the term ``improper payments'' has the same 
                meaning as that provided in section 2(e)(2) of Public 
                Law 111-204.
    Sec. 188.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if any funds 
provided in or limited by this Act are subject to a reprogramming 
action that requires notice to be provided to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations, transmission of said reprogramming notice 
shall be provided solely to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations, and said reprogramming action shall be approved or 
denied solely by the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations:  
Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation may provide notice to 
other congressional committees of the action of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations on such reprogramming but not sooner than 
30 days following the date on which the reprogramming action has been 
approved or denied by the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 189.  Funds appropriated in this Act to the modal 
administrations may be obligated for the Office of the Secretary for 
the costs related to assessments or reimbursable agreements only when 
such amounts are for the costs of goods and services that are purchased 
to provide a direct benefit to the applicable modal administration or 
administrations.
    Sec. 190.  The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to carry 
out a program that establishes uniform standards for developing and 
supporting agency transit pass and transit benefits authorized under 
section 7905 of title 5, United States Code, including distribution of 
transit benefits by various paper and electronic media.
    Sec. 191.  The Department of Transportation may use funds provided 
by this Act, or any other Act, to assist a contract under title 49, 
United States Code or title 23, United States Code, utilizing 
geographic, economic, or any other hiring preference not otherwise 
authorized by law, or to amend a rule, regulation, policy or other 
measure that forbids a recipient of a Federal Highway Administration or 
Federal Transit Administration grant from imposing such hiring 
preference on a contract or construction project with which the 
Department of Transportation is assisting, only if the grant recipient 
certifies the following--
     (1) that except with respect to apprentices or trainees, a pool of 
readily available but unemployed individuals possessing the knowledge, 
skill, and ability to perform the work that the contract requires 
resides in the jurisdiction;
    (2) that the grant recipient will include appropriate provisions in 
its bid document ensuring that the contractor does not displace any of 
its existing employees in order to satisfy such hiring preference; and
    (3) that any increase in the cost of labor, training, or delays 
resulting from the use of such hiring preference does not delay or 
displace any transportation project in the applicable Statewide 
Transportation Improvement Program or Transportation Improvement 
Program.
    Sec. 192. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to terminate a grant or cooperative 
agreement with the California High Speed Rail Authority, de-obligate 
funding associated with a grant or cooperative agreement with the 
California High Speed Rail Authority, or require the State of 
California or the California High Speed Rail Authority to repay funding 
previously obligated and expended.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall apply to Cooperative Agreement No. FR-HSR-
0009-10-01-06 and any other grant or cooperative agreement with the 
California High Speed Rail Authority in effect on or after enactment of 
this Act.
    (c) Notwithstanding the Department of Transportation Appropriations 
Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-117), de-obligated funds associated with 
Cooperative Agreement No. FR-HSR-0118-12-01-01--
            (1) may not be made available for any purpose until the 
        final determination of any litigation concerning those funds; 
        and
            (2) upon the final determination of any such litigation, 
        shall be made available only for high-speed rail projects under 
        section 26106 of title 49, United States Code, in accordance 
        with such section, except the Secretary of Transportation 
        shall--
                    (A) issue a Notice of Funding Opportunity for such 
                grants no later than 30 days after the final 
                determination of such litigation;
                    (B) require that such Notice of Funding Opportunity 
                shall require application submissions no later than 30 
                days after the issuance of such Notice;
                    (C) award grants no later than 60 days after the 
                issuance of such Notice; and
                    (D) require applicants to provide the Secretary 
                with completed documentation with respect to any 
                required environmental impact statements within the 
                application for a grant.
    Sec. 193.  Section 603(b) of title 23, United States Code, is 
amended by striking paragraph (8) and inserting the following:
                    ``(8) Non-federal share.--Notwithstanding paragraph 
                (9) and section 117(j)(2), the proceeds of a secured 
                loan under the TIFIA program shall be considered to be 
                part of the non-Federal share of project costs required 
                under this title or chapter 53 of title 49, if the loan 
                is repayable from non-Federal funds.''.
    Sec. 194.  Section 502(b)(3) of the Railroad Revitalization and 
Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (45 U.S.C. 822(b)(3)) is amended by 
striking ``only during the 4-year period beginning on the date of 
enactment of the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act of 2015'' and 
inserting ``until September 30, 2020''.
    Sec. 195. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this title may be 
made available to issue grants to entities that do not comply with 
practices for control system procurement recommended by the United 
States Department of Homeland Security's National Cybersecurity and 
Communications Integration Center.
    (b) The Secretary of Transportation may waive the requirement to 
comply with the practices described in subsection (a) if the Secretary 
finds that--
            (1) requiring compliance would be inconsistent with the 
        public interest; and
            (2) the Secretary notifies the House and Senate Committees 
        on Appropriations no less than 3 days before issuing a waiver 
        under this subsection.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Transportation 
Appropriations Act, 2020''.

                                TITLE II

              DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                     Management and Administration

                           executive offices

    For necessary salaries and expenses for Executive Offices, which 
shall be comprised of the offices of the Secretary, Deputy Secretary, 
Adjudicatory Services, Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations, 
Public Affairs, Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, and the 
Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, $14,788,000 
(reduced by $5,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000), to remain available 
until September 30, 2021, and of which $4,557,000 (reduced by 
$4,000,000) is for the Office of the Secretary and $2,192,000 (reduced 
by $1,000,000) is for the Office of Congressional and Intergovernmental 
Relations:  Provided, That not to exceed $20,000 of the total amount 
made available under this heading shall be available to the Secretary 
for official reception and representation expenses as the Secretary may 
determine:  Provided further, That none of the funds made available in 
this title or title II of division G of Public Law 116-6 may be 
reprogrammed or otherwise used to increase the appropriation provided 
by this title for the Office of the Secretary or the Office of 
Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations:  Provided further, That 
none of the funds made available by this or any other Act may be used 
to detail any individual to the Office of the Secretary or the Office 
of Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds made available by this Act may be used to pay 
the salary of any individual occupying a political position in the 
Office of Budget:  Provided further, That for the purposes of the 
previous proviso, the term ``political position'' means the following: 
a position described under sections 5312 through 5316 of title 5, 
United States Code (relating to the Executive Schedule); a noncareer 
appointment in the Senior Executive Service, as defined under paragraph 
(7) of section 3132(a) of such title; a position in the executive 
branch of the Government of a confidential or policy-determining 
character under schedule C of subpart C of part 213 of title 5, Code of 
Federal Regulations; or any other position that has been excepted from 
the competitive service by reason of its confidential, policy-
determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating character.

                     administrative support offices

    For necessary salaries and expenses for Administrative Support 
Offices, $521,500,000 (reduced by $5,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) 
(reduced by $2,000,000), to remain available until September 30, 2021:  
Provided, That of the sums appropriated under this heading--
            (1) not to exceed $52,691,000 shall be for the Office of 
        the Chief Financial Officer;
            (2) not to exceed $95,890,000 (reduced by $1,000,000) shall 
        be for the Office of the General Counsel, of which not less 
        than $20,000,000 shall be for the Departmental Enforcement 
        Center;
            (3) not to exceed $54,000,000 shall be for the Office of 
        Field Policy and Management;
            (4) not to exceed $3,900,000 shall be for the Office of 
        Departmental Equal Employment Opportunity;
            (5) not less than $55,019,000 shall be for the Office of 
        the Chief Information Officer; and
            (6) not to exceed $260,000,000 (reduced by $5,000,000) 
        shall be for the Assistant Secretary for Administration:
  Provided further, That funds provided under this heading may be used 
for hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall provide the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations quarterly written 
notification regarding the status of pending congressional reports:  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall provide in electronic form 
all signed reports required by Congress:  Provided further, That not 
more than 10 percent of the funds made available under this heading for 
the Office of Chief Financial Officer for the financial transformation 
initiative may be obligated until the Secretary submits to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations, for approval, a plan for 
expenditure that includes the financial and internal control 
capabilities to be delivered and the mission benefits to be realized, 
key milestones to be met, and the relationship between the proposed use 
of funds made available under this heading and the projected total cost 
and scope of the initiative.

                  program office salaries and expenses

    For necessary salaries and expenses for Program Offices, 
$849,144,000 (reduced by $2,000,000), to remain available until 
September 30, 2021:  Provided, the amounts made available under this 
heading are provided as follows--
            (1) not to exceed $230,000,000 (reduced by $1,000,000) 
        (increased by $1,000,000) shall be available for the Office of 
        Public and Indian Housing, of which $10,200,000 is for: (a) the 
        Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for carrying out any 
        authorities of such Secretary under chapter 11 of subtitle B of 
        the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12351) and 
        subtitle N of such Act (34 U.S.C. 12471 et seq.); (b) public 
        housing inspections and assessments as referred in paragraph 
        (2) of the heading ``Public Housing Capital Fund'' in this 
        title; and (c) public housing inspections, monitoring and 
        oversight of activities, and other assistance authorized under 
        title I of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
        Determination Act of 1996 (NAHASDA) (25 U.S.C. 4111 et seq.), 
        title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 
        with respect to Indian tribes (42 U.S.C. 5306(a)(1)), section 
        184 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 
        U.S.C. 1715z-13a), and Tribal HUD-VASH program;
            (2) not to exceed $117,000,000 shall be available for the 
        Office of Community Planning and Development, of which 
        $4,656,000 shall be for permanent positions for a disaster 
        recovery workforce;
            (3) not to exceed $386,144,000 (reduced by $2,000,000) 
        shall be available for the Office of Housing, of which not less 
        than $12,000,000 shall be for the Office of Recapitalization;
            (4) not to exceed $26,000,000 shall be available for the 
        Office of Policy Development and Research;
            (5) not to exceed $80,000,000 shall be available for the 
        Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity; and
            (6) not to exceed $10,000,000 shall be available for the 
        Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes:
  Provided further, That the unobligated balances of prior year 
appropriations made available under each of the accounts ``Public and 
Indian Housing'', ``Community Planning and Development'', ``Housing'', 
``Policy Development and Research'', ``Fair Housing and Equal 
Opportunity'', and ``Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes'' 
under the heading ``Department of Housing and Urban Development--
Program Office Salaries and Expenses'' shall be transferred to, and 
merged with, the amounts reserved for the Office of Public and Indian 
Housing, the Office of Community Planning and Development, the Office 
of Housing, the Office of Policy Development and Research, the Office 
of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, and the Office of Lead Hazard 
Control and Healthy Homes, respectively, under the heading ``Department 
of Housing and Urban Development--Program Office Salaries and 
Expenses'' in this title.

                          working capital fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the working capital fund for the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development (referred to in this paragraph as the ``Fund''), 
pursuant, in part, to section 7(f) of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development Act (42 U.S.C. 3535(f)), amounts transferred, 
including reimbursements pursuant to section 7(f), to the Fund under 
this heading shall be available for Federal shared services used by 
offices and agencies of the Department, and for such portion of any 
office or agency's printing, records management, space renovation, 
furniture, or supply services as the Secretary determines shall be 
derived from centralized sources made available by the Department to 
all offices and agencies and funded through the Fund:  Provided, That 
of the amounts made available in this title for salaries and expenses 
under the headings ``Executive Offices'', ``Administrative Support 
Offices'', ``Program Office Salaries and Expenses'', and ``Government 
National Mortgage Association'', the Secretary shall transfer to the 
Fund such amounts, to remain available until expended, as are necessary 
to fund services, specified in the matter preceding the first proviso, 
for which the appropriation would otherwise have been available, and 
may transfer not to exceed an additional $5,000,000, in aggregate, from 
all such appropriations, to be merged with the Fund and to remain 
available until expended for any purpose under this heading:  Provided 
further, That amounts in the Fund shall be the only amounts available 
to each office or agency of the Department for the services, or portion 
of services, specified in the matter preceding the first proviso:  
Provided further, That with respect to the Fund, the authorities and 
conditions under this heading shall supplement the authorities and 
conditions provided under section 7(f).

                       Public and Indian Housing

                     tenant-based rental assistance

    For activities and assistance for the provision of tenant-based 
rental assistance authorized under the United States Housing Act of 
1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (``the Act'' herein), not 
otherwise provided for, $19,810,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000) 
(increased by $2,000,000), to remain available until expended, shall be 
available on October 1, 2019 (in addition to the $4,000,000,000 
previously appropriated under this heading that shall be available on 
October 1, 2019), and $4,000,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be available on October 1, 2020:  Provided, That the 
amounts made available under this heading are provided as follows--
            (1) $21,400,000,000 shall be available for renewals of 
        expiring section 8 tenant-based annual contributions contracts 
        (including renewals of enhanced vouchers under any provision of 
        law authorizing such assistance under section 8(t) of the Act) 
        and including renewal of other special purpose incremental 
        vouchers:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
        of law, from amounts provided under this paragraph and any 
        carryover, the Secretary for the calendar year 2020 funding 
        cycle shall provide renewal funding for each public housing 
        agency based on validated voucher management system (VMS) 
        leasing and cost data for the prior calendar year and by 
        applying an inflation factor as established by the Secretary, 
        by notice published in the Federal Register, and by making any 
        necessary adjustments for the costs associated with the first-
        time renewal of vouchers under this paragraph including tenant 
        protection and Choice Neighborhoods vouchers:  Provided 
        further, That the Secretary shall, to the extent necessary to 
        stay within the amount specified under this paragraph (except 
        as otherwise modified under this paragraph), prorate each 
        public housing agency's allocation otherwise established 
        pursuant to this paragraph:  Provided further, That except as 
        provided in the following provisos, the entire amount specified 
        under this paragraph (except as otherwise modified under this 
        paragraph) shall be obligated to the public housing agencies 
        based on the allocation and pro rata method described above, 
        and the Secretary shall notify public housing agencies of their 
        annual budget by the latter of 60 days after enactment of this 
        Act or March 1, 2020:  Provided further, That the Secretary may 
        extend the notification period with the prior written approval 
        of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations:  Provided 
        further, That public housing agencies participating in the MTW 
        demonstration shall be funded pursuant to their MTW agreements 
        and in accordance with the requirements of the MTW program and 
        shall be subject to the same pro rata adjustments under the 
        previous provisos:  Provided further, That the Secretary may 
        offset public housing agencies' calendar year 2020 allocations 
        based on the excess amounts of public housing agencies' net 
        restricted assets accounts, including HUD-held programmatic 
        reserves (in accordance with VMS data in calendar year 2019 
        that is verifiable and complete), as determined by the 
        Secretary:  Provided further, That public housing agencies 
        participating in the MTW demonstration shall also be subject to 
        the offset, as determined by the Secretary, excluding amounts 
        subject to the single fund budget authority provisions of their 
        MTW agreements, from the agencies' calendar year 2020 MTW 
        funding allocation:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
        use any offset referred to in the previous two provisos 
        throughout the calendar year to prevent the termination of 
        rental assistance for families as the result of insufficient 
        funding, as determined by the Secretary, and to avoid or reduce 
        the proration of renewal funding allocations:  Provided 
        further, That the Secretary may utilize unobligated balances, 
        including recaptures and carryover, remaining from funds 
        appropriated under this heading from prior year appropriations 
        (excluding special purpose vouchers), notwithstanding the 
        purposes for which such amounts were appropriated, to avoid or 
        reduce such prorations:  Provided further, That up to 
        $100,000,000 shall be available only: (1) for adjustments in 
        the allocations for public housing agencies, after application 
        for an adjustment by a public housing agency that experienced a 
        significant increase, as determined by the Secretary, in 
        renewal costs of vouchers resulting from unforeseen 
        circumstances or from portability under section 8(r) of the 
        Act; (2) for vouchers that were not in use during the previous 
        12-month period in order to be available to meet a commitment 
        pursuant to section 8(o)(13) of the Act; (3) for adjustments 
        for costs associated with HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive 
        Housing (HUD-VASH) vouchers; (4) for adjustments in the 
        allocations for public housing agencies that (i) are leasing a 
        lower-than-average percentage of their authorized vouchers, 
        (ii) have low amounts of budget authority in their net 
        restricted assets accounts and HUD-held programmatic reserves, 
        relative to other agencies, and (iii) are not participating in 
        the Moving to Work demonstration, to enable such agencies to 
        lease more vouchers; (5) for public housing agencies that 
        despite taking reasonable cost savings measures, as determined 
        by the Secretary, would otherwise be required to terminate 
        rental assistance for families as a result of insufficient 
        funding; and (6) for public housing agencies that have 
        experienced increased costs or loss of units in an area for 
        which the President declared a disaster under title IV of the 
        Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 5170 et seq.):  Provided further, That the Secretary 
        shall allocate amounts under the previous proviso based on 
        need, as determined by the Secretary;
            (2) $150,000,000 shall be for section 8 rental assistance 
        for relocation and replacement of housing units that are 
        demolished or disposed of pursuant to section 18 of the Act, 
        conversion of section 23 projects to assistance under section 
        8, the family unification program under section 8(x) of the 
        Act, relocation of witnesses in connection with efforts to 
        combat crime in public and assisted housing pursuant to a 
        request from a law enforcement or prosecution agency, enhanced 
        vouchers under any provision of law authorizing such assistance 
        under section 8(t) of the Act, HOPE VI and Choice Neighborhood 
        vouchers, mandatory and voluntary conversions, and tenant 
        protection assistance including replacement and relocation 
        assistance or for project-based assistance to prevent the 
        displacement of unassisted elderly tenants currently residing 
        in section 202 properties financed between 1959 and 1974 that 
        are refinanced pursuant to Public Law 106-569, as amended, or 
        under the authority as provided under this Act:  Provided, That 
        when a public housing development is submitted for demolition 
        or disposition under section 18 of the Act, the Secretary may 
        provide section 8 rental assistance when the units pose an 
        imminent health and safety risk to residents:  Provided 
        further, That the Secretary shall provide replacement vouchers 
        for all units that cease to be available as assisted housing, 
        subject only to the availability of funds:  Provided further, 
        That of the amounts made available under this paragraph, 
        $5,000,000 may be available to provide tenant protection 
        assistance, not otherwise provided under this paragraph, to 
        residents residing in low vacancy areas and who may have to pay 
        rents greater than 30 percent of household income, as the 
        result of: (A) the maturity of a HUD-insured, HUD-held or 
        section 202 loan that requires the permission of the Secretary 
        prior to loan prepayment; (B) the expiration of a rental 
        assistance contract for which the tenants are not eligible for 
        enhanced voucher or tenant protection assistance under existing 
        law; or (C) the expiration of affordability restrictions 
        accompanying a mortgage or preservation program administered by 
        the Secretary:  Provided further, That such tenant protection 
        assistance made available under the previous proviso may be 
        provided under the authority of section 8(t) or section 
        8(o)(13) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
        1437f(t)):  Provided further, That the Secretary shall issue 
        guidance to implement the previous provisos, including, but not 
        limited to, requirements for defining eligible at-risk 
        households within 60 days of the enactment of this Act:  
        Provided further, That any tenant protection voucher made 
        available from amounts under this paragraph shall not be 
        reissued by any public housing agency, except the replacement 
        vouchers as defined by the Secretary by notice, when the 
        initial family that received any such voucher no longer 
        receives such voucher, and the authority for any public housing 
        agency to issue any such voucher shall cease to exist:  
        Provided further, That the Secretary may provide section 8 
        rental assistance from amounts made available under this 
        paragraph for units assisted under a project-based subsidy 
        contract funded under the ``Project-Based Rental Assistance'' 
        heading under this title where the owner has received a Notice 
        of Default and the units pose an imminent health and safety 
        risk to residents:  Provided further, That to the extent that 
        the Secretary determines that such units are not feasible for 
        continued rental assistance payments or transfer of the subsidy 
        contract associated with such units to another project or 
        projects and owner or owners, any remaining amounts associated 
        with such units under such contract shall be recaptured and 
        used to reimburse amounts used under this paragraph for rental 
        assistance under the preceding proviso;
            (3) $1,925,000,000 shall be for administrative and other 
        expenses of public housing agencies in administering the 
        section 8 tenant-based rental assistance program, of which up 
        to $30,000,000 shall be available to the Secretary to allocate 
        to public housing agencies that need additional funds to 
        administer their section 8 programs, including fees associated 
        with section 8 tenant protection rental assistance, the 
        administration of disaster related vouchers, HUD-VASH vouchers, 
        and other special purpose incremental vouchers:  Provided, That 
        no less than $1,895,000,000 of the amount provided in this 
        paragraph shall be allocated to public housing agencies for the 
        calendar year 2020 funding cycle based on section 8(q) of the 
        Act (and related Appropriation Act provisions) as in effect 
        immediately before the enactment of the Quality Housing and 
        Work Responsibility Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-276):  Provided 
        further, That if the amounts made available under this 
        paragraph are insufficient to pay the amounts determined under 
        the previous proviso, the Secretary may decrease the amounts 
        allocated to agencies by a uniform percentage applicable to all 
        agencies receiving funding under this paragraph or may, to the 
        extent necessary to provide full payment of amounts determined 
        under the previous proviso, utilize unobligated balances, 
        including recaptures and carryovers, remaining from funds 
        appropriated to the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
        under this heading from prior fiscal years, excluding special 
        purpose vouchers, notwithstanding the purposes for which such 
        amounts were appropriated:  Provided further, That all public 
        housing agencies participating in the MTW demonstration shall 
        be funded pursuant to their MTW agreements and in accordance 
        with the requirements of the MTW program, and shall be subject 
        to the same uniform percentage decrease as under the previous 
        proviso:  Provided further, That amounts provided under this 
        paragraph shall be only for activities related to the provision 
        of tenant-based rental assistance authorized under section 8, 
        including related development activities;
            (4) $225,000,000 shall be for the renewal of tenant-based 
        assistance contracts under section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez 
        National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), including 
        necessary administrative expenses:  Provided, That 
        administrative and other expenses of public housing agencies in 
        administering the special purpose vouchers in this paragraph 
        shall be funded under the same terms and be subject to the same 
        pro rata reduction as the percent decrease for administrative 
        and other expenses to public housing agencies under paragraph 
        (3) of this heading:
            (5) $5,000,000 shall be for rental assistance and 
        associated administrative fees for Tribal HUD-VASH to serve 
        Native American veterans that are homeless or at-risk of 
        homelessness living on or near a reservation or other Indian 
        areas:  Provided, That such amount shall be made available for 
        renewal grants to recipients that received assistance under 
        prior Acts under the Tribal HUD-VASH program:  Provided 
        further, That the Secretary shall be authorized to specify 
        criteria for renewal grants, including data on the utilization 
        of assistance reported by grant recipients:  Provided further, 
        That any amounts remaining after such renewal assistance is 
        awarded may be available for new grants to recipients eligible 
        to receive block grants under the Native American Housing 
        Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101 
        et seq.) for rental assistance and associated administrative 
        fees for Tribal HUD-VASH to serve Native American veterans that 
        are homeless or at-risk of homelessness living on or near a 
        reservation or other Indian areas:  Provided further, That 
        funds shall be awarded based on need, and administrative 
        capacity established by the Secretary in a Notice published in 
        the Federal Register after coordination with the Secretary of 
        the Department of Veterans Affairs:  Provided further, That 
        renewal grants and new grants under this paragraph shall be 
        administered in accordance with program requirements under the 
        Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act 
        of 1996 and modeled after the HUD-VASH program:  Provided 
        further, That the Secretary shall be authorized to waive, or 
        specify alternative requirements for any provision of any 
        statute or regulation that the Secretary administers in 
        connection with the use of funds made available under this 
        paragraph (except for requirements related to fair housing, 
        nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment), upon 
        a finding by the Secretary that any such waivers or alternative 
        requirements are necessary for the effective delivery and 
        administration of such assistance:  Provided further, That 
        grant recipients shall report to the Secretary on utilization 
        of such rental assistance and other program data, as prescribed 
        by the Secretary:  Provided further, That the Secretary may 
        reallocate, as determined by the Secretary, amounts returned or 
        recaptured from awards under prior Acts;
            (6) $40,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000) for incremental 
        rental voucher assistance for use through a supported housing 
        program administered in conjunction with the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs as authorized under section 8(o)(19) of the 
        United States Housing Act of 1937:  Provided, That the 
        Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall make such 
        funding available, notwithstanding section 203 (competition 
        provision) of this title, to public housing agencies that 
        partner with eligible VA Medical Centers or other entities as 
        designated by the Secretary of the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs, based on geographical need for such assistance as 
        identified by the Secretary of the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs, public housing agency administrative performance, and 
        other factors as specified by the Secretary of Housing and 
        Urban Development in consultation with the Secretary of the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs:  Provided further, That the 
        Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may waive, or 
        specify alternative requirements for (in consultation with the 
        Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs), any provision 
        of any statute or regulation that the Secretary of Housing and 
        Urban Development administers in connection with the use of 
        funds made available under this paragraph (except for 
        requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor 
        standards, and the environment), upon a finding by the 
        Secretary that any such waivers or alternative requirements are 
        necessary for the effective delivery and administration of such 
        voucher assistance:  Provided further, That assistance made 
        available under this paragraph shall continue to remain 
        available for homeless veterans upon turn-over;
            (7) $40,000,000 shall be made available for new incremental 
        voucher assistance through the family unification program as 
        authorized by section 8(x) of the Act:  Provided, That the 
        assistance made available under this paragraph shall continue 
        to remain available for family unification upon turnover:  
        Provided further, That for any public housing agency 
        administering voucher assistance appropriated in a prior Act 
        under the family unification program that determines that it no 
        longer has an identified need for such assistance upon 
        turnover, such agency shall notify the Secretary, and the 
        Secretary shall recapture such assistance from the agency and 
        reallocate it to any other public housing agency or agencies 
        based on need for voucher assistance in connection with such 
        program:  Provided further, That of the amounts made available 
        under this paragraph, up to $20,000,000 shall be for assistance 
        for youth under section 8(x) of the Act:  Provided further, 
        That notwithstanding other laws, the Secretary shall, subject 
        only to the availability of funds, allocate such assistance to 
        any public housing agencies that (1) administer assistance 
        under section 8(x), or seek to administer such assistance, 
        consistent with procedures established by the Secretary, and 
        (2) have requested such assistance so that they may provide 
        timely assistance to eligible youth:  Provided further, That 
        public housing agencies shall not reissue any assistance made 
        available from amounts under this paragraph when the initial 
        youth that received any such assistance no longer receives it, 
        unless approved by the Secretary;
            (8) $25,000,000 shall be made available for the mobility 
        demonstration authorized under section 235 of division G of the 
        Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019 (42 U.S.C. 1437f note; 
        Public Law 116-6; 133 Stat. 465), of which up to $5,000,000 
        shall be for new incremental voucher assistance and the 
        remainder of which shall be available to provide mobility-
        related services to families with children, including pre- and 
        post-move counseling and rent deposits, and to offset the 
        administrative costs of operating the mobility demonstration:  
        Provided, That incremental voucher assistance made available 
        under this paragraph shall be for families with children 
        participating in the mobility demonstration and shall continue 
        to remain available for families with children upon turnover:  
        Provided further, That for any public housing agency 
        administering voucher assistance under the mobility 
        demonstration that determines that it no longer has an 
        identified need for such assistance upon turnover, such agency 
        shall notify the Secretary, and the Secretary shall recapture 
        such assistance from the agency and reallocate it to any other 
        public housing agency or agencies based on need for voucher 
        assistance in connection with such demonstration; and
            (9) the Secretary shall separately track all special 
        purpose vouchers funded under this heading.

                        housing certificate fund

                        (including rescissions)

    Unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, remaining 
from funds appropriated to the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development under this heading, the heading ``Annual Contributions for 
Assisted Housing'' and the heading ``Project-Based Rental Assistance'', 
for fiscal year 2020 and prior years may be used for renewal of or 
amendments to section 8 project-based contracts and for performance-
based contract administrators, notwithstanding the purposes for which 
such funds were appropriated:  Provided, That any obligated balances of 
contract authority from fiscal year 1974 and prior that have been 
terminated shall be rescinded:  Provided further, That amounts 
heretofore recaptured, or recaptured during the current fiscal year, 
from section 8 project-based contracts from source years fiscal year 
1975 through fiscal year 1987 are hereby rescinded, and an amount of 
additional new budget authority, equivalent to the amount rescinded is 
hereby appropriated, to remain available until expended, for the 
purposes set forth under this heading, in addition to amounts otherwise 
available.

                      public housing capital fund

    For the Public Housing Capital Fund Program to carry out capital 
and management activities for public housing agencies, as authorized 
under section 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
1437g) (the ``Act'') $2,855,057,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2023: Provided, That the amounts made available under 
this heading are provided as follows--
            (1) notwithstanding any other provision of law or 
        regulation, during fiscal year 2020, the Secretary of Housing 
        and Urban Development may not delegate to any Department 
        official other than the Deputy Secretary and the Assistant 
        Secretary for Public and Indian Housing any authority under 
        paragraph (2) of section 9(j) regarding the extension of the 
        time periods under such section: Provided further, That for 
        purposes of such section 9(j), the term ``obligate'' means, 
        with respect to amounts, that the amounts are subject to a 
        binding agreement that will result in outlays, immediately or 
        in the future;
            (2) $28,000,000 shall be to support ongoing public housing 
        financial and physical assessment activities, pilot a new 
        physical inspection process, and implement the recommendations 
        made in the March 2019 Government Accountability Office (GAO) 
        report ``Real Estate Inspection Center: HUD should Improve 
        Physical Inspection Process and Oversight of Inspectors'' (GAO-
        19-254);
            (3) up to $16,000,000 shall be to support the costs of 
        administrative and judicial receiverships;
            (4) not to exceed $30,000,000 shall be available for the 
        Secretary to make grants, notwithstanding section 203 of this 
        Act, to public housing agencies for emergency capital needs 
        including safety and security measures necessary to address 
        crime and drug-related activity as well as needs resulting from 
        unforeseen or unpreventable emergencies and natural disasters 
        excluding Presidentially declared emergencies and natural 
        disasters under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
        Emergency Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) occurring in fiscal year 
        2020: Provided further, That of the amount made available under 
        this paragraph, not less than $10,000,000 shall be for safety 
        and security measures: Provided further, That in addition to 
        the amount in the previous proviso for such safety and security 
        measures, any amounts that remain available, after all 
        applications received on or before September 30, 2021, for 
        emergency capital needs have been processed, shall be allocated 
        to public housing agencies for such safety and security 
        measures;
            (5) Provided further, That for funds provided under this 
        heading, the limitation in section 9(g)(1) of the Act shall be 
        25 percent: Provided further, That the Secretary may waive the 
        limitation in the previous proviso to allow public housing 
        agencies to fund activities authorized under section 9(e)(1)(C) 
        of the Act: Provided further, That the Secretary shall notify 
        public housing agencies requesting waivers under the previous 
        proviso if the request is approved or denied within 14 days of 
        submitting the request: Provided further, That from the funds 
        made available under this heading, the Secretary shall provide 
        bonus awards in fiscal year 2020 to public housing agencies 
        that are designated high performers: Provided further, That the 
        Department shall notify public housing agencies of their 
        formula allocation within 60 days of enactment of this Act;
            (6) $25,000,000 shall be available for competitive grants 
        to public housing agencies to evaluate and reduce lead-based 
        paint hazards in public housing by carrying out the activities 
        of risk assessments, abatement, and interim controls (as those 
        terms are defined in section 1004 of the Residential Lead-Based 
        Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851b)): Provided 
        further, That for purposes of environmental review, a grant 
        under this paragraph shall be considered funds for projects or 
        activities under title I of the United States Housing Act of 
        1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) for purposes of section 26 of 
        such Act (42 U.S.C. 1437x) and shall be subject to the 
        regulations implementing such section; and
            (7) $25,000,000 shall be available for competitive grants 
        to public housing agencies for activities authorized under the 
        Healthy Homes Initiative, pursuant to sections 501 and 502 of 
        the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970, which shall 
        include research, studies, testing, and demonstration efforts, 
        including education and outreach concerning mold, carbon 
        monoxide poisoning, and other housing-related diseases and 
        hazards.

                     public housing operating fund

    For 2020 payments to public housing agencies for the operation and 
management of public housing, as authorized by section 9(e) of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(e)), $4,753,116,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2021.

                    choice neighborhoods initiative

    For competitive grants under the Choice Neighborhoods Initiative 
(subject to section 24 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437v), unless otherwise specified under this heading), for 
transformation, rehabilitation, and replacement housing needs of both 
public and HUD-assisted housing and to transform neighborhoods of 
poverty into functioning, sustainable mixed income neighborhoods with 
appropriate services, schools, public assets, transportation and access 
to jobs, $300,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2023:  
Provided, That grant funds may be used for resident and community 
services, community development, and affordable housing needs in the 
community, and for conversion of vacant or foreclosed properties to 
affordable housing:  Provided further, That the use of funds made 
available under this heading shall not be deemed to be public housing 
notwithstanding section 3(b)(1) of such Act:  Provided further, That 
grantees shall commit to an additional period of affordability 
determined by the Secretary of not fewer than 20 years:  Provided 
further, That grantees shall provide a match in State, local, other 
Federal or private funds:  Provided further, That grantees may include 
local governments, tribal entities, public housing authorities, and 
nonprofits:  Provided further, That for-profit developers may apply 
jointly with a public entity:  Provided further, That for purposes of 
environmental review, a grantee shall be treated as a public housing 
agency under section 26 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437x), and grants under this heading shall be subject to the 
regulations issued by the Secretary to implement such section:  
Provided further, That of the amount provided, not less than 
$150,000,000 shall be awarded to public housing agencies:  Provided 
further, That such grantees shall create partnerships with other local 
organizations including assisted housing owners, service agencies, and 
resident organizations:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
consult with the Secretaries of Education, Labor, Transportation, 
Health and Human Services, Agriculture, and Commerce, the Attorney 
General, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency 
to coordinate and leverage other appropriate Federal resources:  
Provided further, That no more than $5,000,000 of funds made available 
under this heading may be provided as grants to undertake comprehensive 
local planning with input from residents and the community:  Provided 
further, That unobligated balances, including recaptures, remaining 
from funds appropriated under the heading ``Revitalization of Severely 
Distressed Public Housing (HOPE VI)'' in fiscal year 2011 and prior 
fiscal years may be used for purposes under this heading, 
notwithstanding the purposes for which such amounts were appropriated:  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall issue the Notice of Funding 
Availability for funds made available under this heading no later than 
120 days after enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall make grant awards no later than one year from the date 
of enactment of this Act in such amounts that the Secretary determines: 
 Provided further, That notwithstanding section 24(o) of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437v(o)), the Secretary may, 
until September 30, 2023, obligate any available unobligated balances 
made available under this heading in this, or any prior Act.

                       self-sufficiency programs

    For activities and assistance related to Self-Sufficiency Programs, 
to remain available until September 30, 2023, $150,000,000 (increased 
by $5,000,000): Provided, That the amounts made available under this 
heading are provided as follows--
            (1) $100,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000) shall be for the 
        Family Self-Sufficiency program to support family self-
        sufficiency coordinators under section 23 of the United States 
        Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437u), to promote the 
        development of local strategies to coordinate the use of 
        assistance under sections 8 and 9 of such Act with public and 
        private resources, and enable eligible families to achieve 
        economic independence and self-sufficiency: Provided, That the 
        Secretary may, by Federal Register notice, waive or specify 
        alternative requirements under subsections (b)(3), (b)(4), 
        (b)(5), or (c)(1) of section 23 of such Act in order to 
        facilitate the operation of a unified self-sufficiency program 
        for individuals receiving assistance under different provisions 
        of the Act, as determined by the Secretary: Provided further, 
        That owners of a privately owned multifamily property with a 
        section 8 contract may voluntarily make a Family Self-
        Sufficiency program available to the assisted tenants of such 
        property in accordance with procedures established by the 
        Secretary: Provided further, That such procedures established 
        pursuant to the previous proviso shall permit participating 
        tenants to accrue escrow funds in accordance with section 
        23(d)(2) and shall allow owners to use funding from residual 
        receipt accounts to hire coordinators for their own Family 
        Self-Sufficiency program;
            (2) $35,000,000 shall be for the Resident Opportunity and 
        Self-Sufficiency program to provide for supportive services, 
        service coordinators, and congregate services as authorized by 
        section 34 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
        1437z-6) and the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
        Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101 et seq.); and
            (3) $15,000,000 shall be for a Jobs-Plus initiative, 
        modeled after the Jobs-Plus demonstration: Provided, That 
        funding provided under this paragraph shall be available for 
        competitive grants to partnerships between public housing 
        authorities, local workforce investment boards established 
        under section 107 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity 
        Act of 2014 (29 U.S.C. 3122), and other agencies and 
        organizations that provide support to help public housing 
        residents obtain employment and increase earnings: Provided 
        further, That applicants must demonstrate the ability to 
        provide services to residents, partner with workforce 
        investment boards, and leverage service dollars: Provided 
        further, That the Secretary may allow public housing agencies 
        to request exemptions from rent and income limitation 
        requirements under sections 3 and 6 of the United States 
        Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a, 1437d), as necessary to 
        implement the Jobs-Plus program, on such terms and conditions 
        as the Secretary may approve upon a finding by the Secretary 
        that any such waivers or alternative requirements are necessary 
        for the effective implementation of the Jobs-Plus initiative as 
        a voluntary program for residents: Provided further, That the 
        Secretary shall publish by notice in the Federal Register any 
        waivers or alternative requirements pursuant to the preceding 
        proviso no later than 10 days before the effective date of such 
        notice: Provided further, That for funds provided under this 
        paragraph, the limitation in section 9(g)(1) of the United 
        States Housing Act of 1937 shall be 25 percent: Provided 
        further, That the Secretary may waive the limitation in the 
        previous proviso to allow public housing agencies to fund 
        activities authorized under section 9(e)(1)(C) of such Act: 
        Provided further, That the Secretary shall notify public 
        housing agencies requesting waivers under the previous proviso 
        if the request is approved or denied within 14 days of 
        submitting the request: Provided further, That from the funds 
        made available under this heading, the Secretary shall provide 
        bonus awards in fiscal year 2020 to public housing agencies 
        that are designated high performers: Provided further, That the 
        Department shall notify public housing agencies of their 
        formula allocation within 60 days of enactment of this Act.

                        native american programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For activities and assistance authorized under title I of the 
Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 
(NAHASDA) (25 U.S.C. 4111 et seq.), title I of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 with respect to Indian tribes (42 
U.S.C. 5306(a)(1)), and related training and technical assistance, 
$855,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000), to remain available until 
September 30, 2024, unless otherwise specified:  Provided, That amounts 
made available under this heading are provided as follows--
            (1) $671,000,000 shall be for the Native American Housing 
        Block Grants program, as authorized under title I of NAHASDA:  
        Provided, That, notwithstanding NAHASDA, to determine the 
        amount of the allocation under title I of such Act for each 
        Indian tribe, the Secretary shall apply the formula under 
        section 302 of such Act with the need component based on 
        single-race census data and with the need component based on 
        multi-race census data, and the amount of the allocation for 
        each Indian tribe shall be the greater of the two resulting 
        allocation amounts:  Provided further, That the Department 
        shall notify grantees of their formula allocation within 60 
        days of the date of enactment of this Act;
            (2) $2,000,000 shall be for the cost of guaranteed notes 
        and other obligations, as authorized by title VI of NAHASDA:  
        Provided, That such costs, including the costs of modifying 
        such notes and other obligations, shall be as defined in 
        section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as 
        amended:  Provided further,  That these funds are available to 
        subsidize the total principal amount of any notes and other 
        obligations, any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to 
        exceed $32,000,000;
            (3) $100,000,000 shall be for competitive grants under the 
        Native American Housing Block Grants program, as authorized 
        under title I of NAHASDA:  Provided,  That the Secretary shall 
        obligate this additional amount for competitive grants to 
        eligible recipients authorized under NAHASDA that apply for 
        funds:  Provided further, That in awarding this additional 
        amount, the Secretary shall consider need and administrative 
        capacity, and shall give priority to projects that will spur 
        construction and rehabilitation:  Provided further,  That a 
        grant funded pursuant to this paragraph shall be not greater 
        than $10,000,000:  Provided further, That up to 1 percent of 
        this additional amount may be transferred, in aggregate, to the 
        Office of Public and Indian Housing under paragraph (1) of the 
        heading ``Program Office Salaries and Expenses'' for necessary 
        costs of administering and overseeing the obligation and 
        expenditure of this additional amount:  Provided further, That 
        any funds transferred pursuant to this paragraph shall remain 
        available until September 30, 2025;
            (4) $75,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000) shall be for 
        grants to Indian tribes for carrying out the Indian Community 
        Development Block Grant program under title I of the Housing 
        and Community Development Act of 1974, notwithstanding section 
        106(a)(1) of such Act, of which, notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law (including section 203 of this Act), up to 
        $5,000,000 may be used for emergencies that constitute imminent 
        threats to health and safety:  Provided, That not to exceed 20 
        percent of any grant made with funds appropriated under this 
        paragraph shall be expended for planning and management 
        development and administration:  Provided further, That funds 
        provided under this paragraph shall remain available until 
        September 30, 2022; and
            (5) $7,000,000 shall be for providing training and 
        technical assistance to Indian tribes, Indian housing 
        authorities and tribally designated housing entities, to 
        support the inspection of Indian housing units, contract 
        expertise, and for training and technical assistance related to 
        funding provided under this heading and other headings under 
        this Act for the needs of Native American families and Indian 
        country:  Provided, That of the funds made available under this 
        paragraph, not less than $2,000,000 shall be available for a 
        national organization as authorized under section 703 of 
        NAHASDA (25 U.S.C. 4212):  Provided further, That 
        notwithstanding the provisions of the Federal Grant and 
        Cooperative Agreements Act of 1977 (31 U.S.C. 6301-6308), the 
        amounts made available under this paragraph may be used by the 
        Secretary to enter into cooperative agreements with public and 
        private organizations, agencies, institutions, and other 
        technical assistance providers to support the administration of 
        negotiated rulemaking under section 106 of NAHASDA (25 U.S.C. 
        4116), the administration of the allocation formula under 
        section 302 of NAHASDA (25 U.S.C. 4152), and the administration 
        of performance tracking and reporting under section 407 of 
        NAHASDA (25 U.S.C. 4167).

           indian housing loan guarantee fund program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by section 184 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 1715z-
13a), $2,500,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
such costs, including the costs of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize total 
loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, up to 
$1,000,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That up to $500,000 of this amount may be for administrative contract 
expenses including management processes and systems to carry out the 
loan guarantee program.

                  native hawaiian housing block grant

    For the Native Hawaiian Housing Block Grant program, as authorized 
under title VIII of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4111 et seq.), $2,500,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2024:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 812(b) of such Act, the Department of Hawaiian 
Home Lands may not invest grant amounts provided under this heading in 
investment securities and other obligations:  Provided further, That 
amounts made available under this heading in this and prior fiscal 
years may be used to provide rental assistance to eligible Native 
Hawaiian families both on and off the Hawaiian Home Lands, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law.

                   Community Planning and Development

              housing opportunities for persons with aids

    For carrying out the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS 
program, as authorized by the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 
12901 et seq.), $410,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2021, except that amounts allocated pursuant to section 854(c)(5) of 
such Act shall remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, 
That the Secretary shall renew all expiring contracts for permanent 
supportive housing that initially were funded under section 854(c)(5) 
of such Act from funds made available under this heading in fiscal year 
2010 and prior fiscal years that meet all program requirements before 
awarding funds for new contracts under such section:  Provided further, 
That the Department shall notify grantees of their formula allocation 
within 60 days of enactment of this Act.

                       community development fund

    For carrying out the community development block grant program 
under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as 
amended (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.)(``the Act'' herein), $3,600,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2022, unless otherwise 
specified: Provided, That unless explicitly provided for under this 
heading, not to exceed 20 percent of any grant made with funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be expended for planning and 
management development and administration: Provided further, That a 
metropolitan city, urban county, unit of general local government, or 
insular area that directly or indirectly receives funds under this 
heading may not sell, trade, or otherwise transfer all or any portion 
of such funds to another such entity in exchange for any other funds, 
credits or non-Federal considerations, but must use such funds for 
activities eligible under title I of the Act: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 105(e)(1) of the Act, no funds provided under 
this heading may be provided to a for-profit entity for an economic 
development project under section 105(a)(17) unless such project has 
been evaluated and selected in accordance with guidelines required 
under subsection (e)(2): Provided further, That the Department shall 
notify grantees of their formula allocation within 60 days of enactment 
of this Act.

         community development loan guarantees program account

    Subject to section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
during fiscal year 2020, commitments to guarantee loans under section 
108 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 
5308), any part of which is guaranteed, shall not exceed a total 
principal amount of $300,000,000, notwithstanding any aggregate 
limitation on outstanding obligations guaranteed in subsection (k) of 
such section 108:  Provided, That the Secretary shall collect fees from 
borrowers, notwithstanding subsection (m) of such section 108, to 
result in a credit subsidy cost of zero for guaranteeing such loans, 
and any such fees shall be collected in accordance with section 502(7) 
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That such 
commitment authority funded by fees may be used to guarantee, or make 
commitments to guarantee, notes or other obligations issued by any 
State on behalf of non-entitlement communities in the State in 
accordance with the requirements of such section 108:  Provided 
further, That any State receiving such a guarantee or commitment under 
the previous proviso shall distribute all funds subject to such 
guarantee to the units of general local government in nonentitlement 
areas that received the commitment.

                  home investment partnerships program

    For the HOME Investment Partnerships program, as authorized under 
title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as 
amended, $1,750,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2023:  
Provided, That notwithstanding the amount made available under this 
heading, the threshold reduction requirements in sections 216(10) and 
217(b)(4) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12746(10), 12747(b)(4)) shall not 
apply to allocations of such amount:  Provided further, That the 
Department shall notify grantees of their formula allocation within 60 
days of enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That section 218(g) 
of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12748(g)) shall not apply with respect to the 
right of a jurisdiction to draw funds from its HOME Investment Trust 
Fund that otherwise expired or would expire in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 
2020, 2021, or 2022 under that section:  Provided further, That section 
231(b) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12771(b)) shall not apply to any 
uninvested funds that otherwise were deducted or would be deducted from 
the line of credit in the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment 
Trust Fund in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, or 2022 under that section and 
the funds shall be invested only in housing to be developed, sponsored, 
or owned by community housing development organizations.

        self-help and assisted homeownership opportunity program

    For the Self-Help and Assisted Homeownership Opportunity Program, 
as authorized under section 11 of the Housing Opportunity Program 
Extension Act of 1996, as amended, $55,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2022:  Provided, That of the total amount provided 
under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be made available to the Self-
Help Homeownership Opportunity Program as authorized under section 11 
of the Housing Opportunity Program Extension Act of 1996, as amended:  
Provided further, That of the total amount provided under this heading, 
$40,000,000 shall be made available for the second, third, and fourth 
capacity building activities authorized under section 4(a) of the HUD 
Demonstration Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 9816 note), of which not less than 
$5,000,000 shall be made available for rural capacity building 
activities:  Provided further, That of the total amount provided under 
this heading, $5,000,000 shall be made available for capacity building 
by national rural housing organizations with experience assessing 
national rural conditions and providing financing, training, technical 
assistance, information, and research to local nonprofits, local 
governments, and Indian Tribes serving high need rural communities.

                       homeless assistance grants

    For the Emergency Solutions Grants program as authorized under 
subtitle B of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, 
as amended; the Continuum of Care program as authorized under subtitle 
C of title IV of such Act; and the Rural Housing Stability Assistance 
program as authorized under subtitle D of title IV of such Act, 
$2,800,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) 
(increased by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000), to remain 
available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, That not less than 
$290,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
available for such Emergency Solutions Grants program:  Provided 
further, That not less than $2,344,000,000 of the funds appropriated 
under this heading shall be available for such Continuum of Care and 
Rural Housing Stability Assistance programs:  Provided further, That of 
the amounts made available under this heading, up to $50,000,000 shall 
be made available for grants for rapid re-housing projects and 
supportive service projects providing coordinated entry, and for 
eligible activities the Secretary determines to be critical in order to 
assist survivors of domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, 
and stalking:  Provided further, That such projects shall be eligible 
for renewal under the continuum of care program subject to the same 
terms and conditions as other renewal applicants:  Provided further, 
That up to $7,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading 
shall be available for the national homeless data analysis project:  
Provided further, That for all match requirements applicable to funds 
made available under this heading for this fiscal year and prior fiscal 
years, a grantee may use (or could have used) as a source of match 
funds other funds administered by the Secretary and other Federal 
agencies unless there is (or was) a specific statutory prohibition on 
any such use of any such funds:  Provided further, That none of the 
funds provided under this heading shall be available to provide funding 
for new projects, except for projects created through reallocation, 
unless the Secretary determines that the continuum of care has 
demonstrated that projects are evaluated and ranked based on the degree 
to which they improve the continuum of care's system performance:  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall prioritize funding under the 
Continuum of Care program to continuums of care that have demonstrated 
a capacity to reallocate funding from lower performing projects to 
higher performing projects:  Provided further, That all awards of 
assistance under this heading shall be required to coordinate and 
integrate homeless programs with other mainstream health, social 
services, and employment programs for which homeless populations may be 
eligible:  Provided further, That any unobligated amounts remaining 
from funds appropriated under this heading in fiscal year 2012 and 
prior years for project-based rental assistance for rehabilitation 
projects with 10-year grant terms may be used for purposes under this 
heading, notwithstanding the purposes for which such funds were 
appropriated:  Provided further, That all balances for Shelter Plus 
Care renewals previously funded from the Shelter Plus Care Renewal 
account and transferred to this account shall be available, if 
recaptured, for Continuum of Care renewals in fiscal year 2020:  
Provided further, That the Department shall notify grantees of their 
formula allocation from amounts allocated (which may represent initial 
or final amounts allocated) for the Emergency Solutions Grant program 
within 60 days of enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That up to 
$100,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000) of the funds appropriated under 
this heading shall be to implement projects to demonstrate how a 
comprehensive approach to serving homeless youth, age 24 and under, in 
up to 25 communities can dramatically reduce youth homelessness:  
Provided further, That of the amount made available under the previous 
proviso, up to $10,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000) shall be available 
to provide technical assistance on improving system responses to youth 
homelessness, and collection, analysis, use, and reporting of data and 
performance measures under the comprehensive approaches to serve 
homeless youth, in addition to and in coordination with other technical 
assistance funds provided under this title:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary may use up to 10 percent of the amount made available under 
the previous proviso to build the capacity of current technical 
assistance providers or to train new technical assistance providers 
with verifiable prior experience with systems and programs for youth 
experiencing homelessness:  Provided further, That such projects shall 
be eligible for renewal under the continuum of care program subject to 
the same terms and conditions as other renewal applicants:  Provided 
further, That youth aged 24 and under seeking assistance under this 
heading shall not be required to provide third party documentation to 
establish their eligibility under 42 U.S.C. 11302(a) or (b) to receive 
services:  Provided further, That unaccompanied youth aged 24 and under 
or families headed by youth aged 24 and under who are living in unsafe 
situations may be served by youth-serving providers funded under this 
heading:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall consider and award 
projects based solely on the selection criteria from the fiscal year 
2018 Notice of Funding Availability.

                            Housing Programs

                    project-based rental assistance

    For activities and assistance for the provision of project-based 
subsidy contracts under the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (``the Act''), not otherwise provided for, 
$12,190,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be available 
on October 1, 2019 (in addition to the $400,000,000 previously 
appropriated under this heading that became available October 1, 2019), 
and $400,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be 
available on October 1, 2020:  Provided, That the amounts made 
available under this heading shall be available for expiring or 
terminating section 8 project-based subsidy contracts (including 
section 8 moderate rehabilitation contracts), for amendments to section 
8 project-based subsidy contracts (including section 8 moderate 
rehabilitation contracts), for contracts entered into pursuant to 
section 441 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
11401), for renewal of section 8 contracts for units in projects that 
are subject to approved plans of action under the Emergency Low Income 
Housing Preservation Act of 1987 or the Low-Income Housing Preservation 
and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990, and for administrative and 
other expenses associated with project-based activities and assistance 
funded under this paragraph:  Provided further, That of the total 
amounts provided under this heading, not to exceed $345,000,000 shall 
be available for performance-based contract administrators for section 
8 project-based assistance, for carrying out 42 U.S.C. 1437(f):  
Provided further, That the Secretary may also use such amounts in the 
previous proviso for performance-based contract administrators for the 
administration of: interest reduction payments pursuant to section 
236(a) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1(a)); rent 
supplement payments pursuant to section 101 of the Housing and Urban 
Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s); section 236(f)(2) rental 
assistance payments (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1(f)(2)); project rental 
assistance contracts for the elderly under section 202(c)(2) of the 
Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q); project rental assistance 
contracts for supportive housing for persons with disabilities under 
section 811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing 
Act (42 U.S.C. 8013(d)(2)); project assistance contracts pursuant to 
section 202(h) of the Housing Act of 1959 (Public Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 
667); and loans under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (Public 
Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 667):  Provided further, That amounts recaptured 
under this heading, the heading ``Annual Contributions for Assisted 
Housing'', or the heading ``Housing Certificate Fund'', may be used for 
renewals of or amendments to section 8 project-based contracts or for 
performance-based contract administrators, notwithstanding the purposes 
for which such amounts were appropriated:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon the request of the 
Secretary, project funds that are held in residual receipts accounts 
for any project subject to a section 8 project-based Housing Assistance 
Payments contract that authorizes HUD or a Housing Finance Agency to 
require that surplus project funds be deposited in an interest-bearing 
residual receipts account and that are in excess of an amount to be 
determined by the Secretary, shall be remitted to the Department and 
deposited in this account, to be available until expended:  Provided 
further, That amounts deposited pursuant to the previous proviso shall 
be available in addition to the amount otherwise provided by this 
heading for uses authorized under this heading.

                        housing for the elderly

    For capital advances, including amendments to capital advance 
contracts, for housing for the elderly, as authorized by section 202 of 
the Housing Act of 1959, as amended, for project rental assistance for 
the elderly under section 202(c)(2) of such Act, including amendments 
to contracts for such assistance and renewal of expiring contracts for 
such assistance for up to a 1-year term, for senior preservation rental 
assistance contracts, including renewals, as authorized by section 
811(e) of the American Housing and Economic Opportunity Act of 2000, as 
amended, and for supportive services associated with the housing, 
$803,000,000 (increased by $1,000,000), to remain available until 
September 30, 2023:  Provided, That of the amount provided under this 
heading, up to $95,000,000 shall be for service coordinators and the 
continuation of existing congregate service grants for residents of 
assisted housing projects:  Provided further, That amounts under this 
heading shall be available for Real Estate Assessment Center 
inspections and inspection-related activities associated with section 
202 projects:  Provided further, That the Secretary may waive the 
provisions of section 202 governing the terms and conditions of project 
rental assistance, except that the initial contract term for such 
assistance shall not exceed 5 years in duration:  Provided further, 
That upon request of the Secretary, project funds that are held in 
residual receipts accounts for any project subject to a section 202 
project rental assistance contract and, upon termination of such 
contract, are in excess of an amount to be determined by the Secretary 
shall be remitted to the Department and deposited in this account, to 
remain available until September 30, 2023:  Provided further, That 
amounts deposited in this account pursuant to the previous proviso 
shall be available, in addition to the amounts otherwise provided by 
this heading, for amendments and renewals:  Provided further, That 
unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, remaining 
from funds transferred to or appropriated under this heading shall be 
available for amendments and renewals in addition to the purposes for 
which such funds originally were appropriated:  Provided further, That 
of the total amount provided under this heading, $10,000,000, shall be 
for a program to be established by the Secretary to make grants to 
experienced non-profit organizations, States, local governments, or 
public housing agencies for safety and functional home modification 
repairs to meet the needs of low-income elderly persons to enable them 
to remain in their primary residence:  Provided further, That of the 
total amount made available under the previous proviso, no less than 
$5,000,000 shall be available to meet such needs in communities with 
substantial rural populations.

                 housing for persons with disabilities

    For capital advances, including amendments to capital advance 
contracts, for supportive housing for persons with disabilities, as 
authorized by section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), as amended, for project rental assistance 
for supportive housing for persons with disabilities under section 
811(d)(2) of such Act, for project assistance contracts pursuant to 
section 202(h) of the Housing Act of 1959 (Public Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 
667), including amendments to contracts for such assistance and renewal 
of expiring contracts for such assistance for up to a 1-year term, for 
project rental assistance to State housing finance agencies and other 
appropriate entities as authorized under section 811(b)(3) of the 
Cranston-Gonzalez National Housing Act, and for supportive services 
associated with the housing for persons with disabilities as authorized 
by section 811(b)(1) of such Act, $258,510,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2023:  Provided, That amounts made available under 
this heading shall be available for Real Estate Assessment Center 
inspections and inspection-related activities associated with section 
811 projects:  Provided further, That, upon the request of the 
Secretary, project funds that are held in residual receipts accounts 
for any project subject to a section 811 project rental assistance 
contract and, upon termination of such contract, are in excess of an 
amount to be determined by the Secretary shall be remitted to the 
Department and deposited in this account, to remain available until 
September 30, 2023:  Provided further, That amounts deposited in this 
account pursuant to the previous proviso shall be available in addition 
to the amounts otherwise provided by this heading for amendments and 
renewals:  Provided further, That unobligated balances, including 
recaptures and carryover, remaining from funds transferred to or 
appropriated under this heading shall be used for amendments and 
renewals in addition to the purposes for which such funds originally 
were appropriated.

                     housing counseling assistance

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance excluding loans, as 
authorized under section 106 of the Housing and Urban Development Act 
of 1968, as amended, $60,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021, including up to $4,500,000 for administrative contract 
services:  Provided, That grants made available from amounts provided 
under this heading shall be awarded within 180 days of enactment of 
this Act:  Provided further, That funds shall be used for providing 
counseling and advice to tenants and homeowners, both current and 
prospective, with respect to property maintenance, financial management 
or literacy, and such other matters as may be appropriate to assist 
them in improving their housing conditions, meeting their financial 
needs, and fulfilling the responsibilities of tenancy or homeownership; 
for program administration; and for housing counselor training:  
Provided further, That for purposes of providing such grants from 
amounts provided under this heading, the Secretary may enter into 
multiyear agreements, as appropriate, subject to the availability of 
annual appropriations.

                       rental housing assistance

    For amendments to contracts under section 101 of the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s) and section 236(f)(2) 
of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1) in State-aided, 
noninsured rental housing projects, $3,000,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That such amount, together with unobligated 
balances from recaptured amounts appropriated prior to fiscal year 2006 
from terminated contracts under such sections of law, and any 
unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, remaining 
from funds appropriated under this heading after fiscal year 2005, 
shall also be available for extensions of up to one year for expiring 
contracts under such sections of law.

            payment to manufactured housing fees trust fund

    For necessary expenses as authorized by the National Manufactured 
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5401 
et seq.), up to $12,400,000 (increased by $500,000), to remain 
available until expended, of which $12,400,000 (increased by $500,000) 
is to be derived from the Manufactured Housing Fees Trust Fund:  
Provided, That not to exceed the total amount appropriated under this 
heading shall be available from the general fund of the Treasury to the 
extent necessary to incur obligations and make expenditures pending the 
receipt of collections to the Fund pursuant to section 620 of such Act: 
 Provided further, That the amount made available under this heading 
from the general fund shall be reduced as such collections are received 
during fiscal year 2020 so as to result in a final fiscal year 2020 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at zero, and fees 
pursuant to such section 620 shall be modified as necessary to ensure 
such a final fiscal year 2020 appropriation:  Provided further, That 
for the dispute resolution and installation programs, the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development may assess and collect fees from any 
program participant:  Provided further, That such collections shall be 
deposited into the Fund, and the Secretary, as provided herein, may use 
such collections, as well as fees collected under section 620, for 
necessary expenses of such Act:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding the requirements of section 620 of such Act, the 
Secretary may carry out responsibilities of the Secretary under such 
Act through the use of approved service providers that are paid 
directly by the recipients of their services.

                     Federal Housing Administration

               mutual mortgage insurance program account

    New commitments to guarantee single family loans insured under the 
Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund shall not exceed $400,000,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That during 
fiscal year 2020, obligations to make direct loans to carry out the 
purposes of section 204(g) of the National Housing Act, as amended, 
shall not exceed $1,000,000:  Provided further, That the foregoing 
amount in the previous proviso shall be for loans to nonprofit and 
governmental entities in connection with sales of single family real 
properties owned by the Secretary and formerly insured under the Mutual 
Mortgage Insurance Fund:  Provided further, That for administrative 
contract expenses of the Federal Housing Administration, $130,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided further, That 
to the extent guaranteed loan commitments exceed $200,000,000,000 on or 
before April 1, 2020, an additional $1,400 for administrative contract 
expenses shall be available for each $1,000,000 in additional 
guaranteed loan commitments (including a pro rata amount for any amount 
below $1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made available by this 
proviso exceed $30,000,000:  Provided further, That notwithstanding the 
limitation in the first sentence of section 255(g) of the National 
Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-20(g)), during fiscal year 2020 the 
Secretary may insure and enter into new commitments to insure mortgages 
under section 255 of the National Housing Act only to the extent that 
the net credit subsidy cost for such insurance does not exceed zero:  
Provided further, That for fiscal year 2020, the Secretary shall not 
take any action against a lender solely on the basis of compare ratios 
that have been adversely affected by defaults on mortgages secured by 
properties in areas where a major disaster was declared in 2017 or 2018 
pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.).

                general and special risk program account

    New commitments to guarantee loans insured under the General and 
Special Risk Insurance Funds, as authorized by sections 238 and 519 of 
the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-3 and 1735c), shall not 
exceed $30,000,000,000 in total loan principal, any part of which is to 
be guaranteed, to remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, 
That during fiscal year 2020, gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct loans, as authorized by sections 204(g), 207(l), 238, 
and 519(a) of the National Housing Act, shall not exceed $1,000,000, 
which shall be for loans to nonprofit and governmental entities in 
connection with the sale of single family real properties owned by the 
Secretary and formerly insured under such Act.

                Government National Mortgage Association

guarantees of mortgage-backed securities loan guarantee program account

    New commitments to issue guarantees to carry out the purposes of 
section 306 of the National Housing Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 
1721(g)), shall not exceed $550,000,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021:  Provided, That $27,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2021, shall be for necessary salaries and expenses 
of the Office of Government National Mortgage Association:  Provided 
further, That to the extent that guaranteed loan commitments exceed 
$155,000,000,000 on or before April 1, 2020, an additional $100 for 
necessary salaries and expenses shall be available until expended for 
each $1,000,000 in additional guaranteed loan commitments (including a 
pro rata amount for any amount below $1,000,000), but in no case shall 
funds made available by this proviso exceed $3,000,000:  Provided 
further, That receipts from Commitment and Multiclass fees collected 
pursuant to title III of the National Housing Act, as amended, shall be 
credited as offsetting collections to this account.

                    Policy Development and Research

                        research and technology

    For contracts, grants, and necessary expenses of programs of 
research and studies relating to housing and urban problems, as 
authorized by title V of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970 
(12 U.S.C. 1701z-1 et seq.), including carrying out the functions of 
the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development under section 1(a)(1)(i) 
of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1968, and for technical assistance, 
$98,000,000 (increased by $1,500,000) (reduced by $1,500,000), to 
remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That the amounts 
made available under this heading may be used for the types of research 
and studies otherwise provided for and authorized elsewhere under this 
title:  Provided further, That with respect to amounts made available 
under this heading, notwithstanding section 203 of this title, the 
Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements funded with 
philanthropic entities, other Federal agencies, State or local 
governments and their agencies, Indian tribes, tribally designated 
housing entities, or colleges or universities for research projects:  
Provided further, That with respect to the previous proviso, such 
partners to the cooperative agreements must contribute at least a 50 
percent match toward the cost of the project:  Provided further, That 
for non-competitive agreements entered into in accordance with the 
previous two provisos, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
shall comply with section 2(b) of the Federal Funding Accountability 
and Transparency Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-282, 31 U.S.C. note) in 
lieu of compliance with section 102(a)(4)(C) with respect to 
documentation of award decisions:  Provided further, That prior to 
obligation of technical assistance funding, the Secretary shall submit 
a plan, for approval, to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations on how it will allocate funding for this activity:  
Provided further, That none of the funds provided under this heading 
may be available for the doctoral dissertation research grant program.

                   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity

                        fair housing activities

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance, not otherwise provided 
for, as authorized by title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as 
amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, and section 561 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987, as amended, 
$75,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, 
That grants made available from amounts provided under this heading 
shall be awarded within 120 days of enactment of this Act:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Secretary may assess 
and collect fees to cover the costs of the Fair Housing Training 
Academy, and may use such funds to develop on-line courses and provide 
such training:  Provided further, That of the funds made available 
under this heading, up to $450,000 shall be available to the Secretary 
of Housing and Urban Development for the creation and promotion of 
translated materials and other programs that support the assistance of 
persons with limited English proficiency in utilizing the services 
provided by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.

            Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes

                         lead hazard reduction

    For the Lead Hazard Reduction Program, as authorized by section 
1011 of the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992, 
$290,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022, of which 
$56,000,000 shall be for the Healthy Homes Initiative, pursuant to 
sections 501 and 502 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970, 
which shall include research, studies, testing, and demonstration 
efforts, including education and outreach concerning lead-based paint 
poisoning and other housing-related diseases and hazards:  Provided, 
That for purposes of environmental review, pursuant to the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and other 
provisions of law that further the purposes of such Act, a grant under 
the Healthy Homes Initiative, or the Lead Technical Studies program 
under this heading or under prior appropriations Acts for such purposes 
under this heading, shall be considered to be funds for a special 
project for purposes of section 305(c) of the Multifamily Housing 
Property Disposition Reform Act of 1994:  Provided further, That not 
less than $95,000,000 of the amounts made available under this heading 
for the award of grants pursuant to section 1011 of the Residential 
Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 shall be provided to 
areas with the highest lead-based paint abatement needs:  Provided 
further, That of the amount made available for the Healthy Homes 
Initiative, $5,000,000 shall be for the implementation of projects in 
up to five communities that are served by both the Healthy Homes 
Initiative and Department of Energy weatherization programs to 
demonstrate whether the coordination of Healthy Homes remediation 
activities with weatherization activities achieves cost savings and 
better outcomes in improving the safety and quality of homes:  Provided 
further, That each applicant shall certify adequate capacity that is 
acceptable to the Secretary to carry out the proposed use of funds 
pursuant to a notice of funding availability:  Provided further, That 
amounts made available under this heading in this or prior 
appropriations Acts, still remaining available, may be used for any 
purpose under this heading notwithstanding the purpose for which such 
amounts were appropriated if a program competition is undersubscribed 
and there are other program competitions under this heading that are 
oversubscribed.

             Cybersecurity and Information Technology Fund

    For the mitigation against the exploitation of information 
technology systems and personally identifiable information; for the 
development, modernization, and enhancement of, modifications to, and 
infrastructure for Department-wide and program-specific information 
technology systems, and for the continuing operation and maintenance of 
both Department-wide and program-specific information systems, and for 
program-related maintenance activities, $300,000,000 (reduced by 
$5,000,000), to remain available until September 30, 2021, of which 
$20,000,000 may be used for single family information technology 
systems of the Federal Housing Administration:  Provided, That any 
amounts transferred to this Fund under this Act shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That any amounts transferred to this 
Fund from amounts appropriated by previously enacted appropriations 
Acts may be used for the purposes specified under this Fund, in 
addition to any other information technology purposes for which such 
amounts were appropriated:  Provided further, That not more than 10 
percent of the funds made available under this heading for development, 
modernization and enhancement may be obligated until the Secretary 
submits to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, for 
approval, a plan for expenditure that: (A) identifies for each 
modernization project: (i) the functional and performance capabilities 
to be delivered and the mission benefits to be realized; (ii) the 
estimated life-cycle cost; and (iii) key milestones to be met; and (B) 
demonstrates that each modernization project is: (i) compliant with the 
Department's enterprise architecture; (ii) being managed in accordance 
with applicable life-cycle management policies and guidance; (iii) 
subject to the Department's capital planning and investment control 
requirements; and (iv) supported by an adequately staffed project 
office.

                      Office of Inspector General

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector 
General in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$132,489,000 (reduced by $2,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000):  
Provided, That the Inspector General shall have independent authority 
over all personnel issues within this office.

    General Provisions--Department of Housing and Urban Development

                     (including transfer of funds)

                        (including rescissions)

    Sec. 201.  Fifty percent of the amounts of budget authority, or in 
lieu thereof 50 percent of the cash amounts associated with such budget 
authority, that are recaptured from projects described in section 
1012(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act 
of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1437f note) shall be rescinded or in the case of 
cash, shall be remitted to the Treasury, and such amounts of budget 
authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to the 
Treasury shall be used by State housing finance agencies or local 
governments or local housing agencies with projects approved by the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for which settlement 
occurred after January 1, 1992, in accordance with such section. 
Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the Secretary may award up to 15 
percent of the budget authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or 
remitted to the Treasury to provide project owners with incentives to 
refinance their project at a lower interest rate.
    Sec. 202.  None of the amounts made available under this Act may be 
used during fiscal year 2020 to investigate or prosecute under the Fair 
Housing Act any otherwise lawful activity engaged in by one or more 
persons, including the filing or maintaining of a nonfrivolous legal 
action, that is engaged in solely for the purpose of achieving or 
preventing action by a Government official or entity, or a court of 
competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 203.  Except as explicitly provided in law, any grant, 
cooperative agreement or other assistance made pursuant to title II of 
this Act shall be made on a competitive basis and in accordance with 
section 102 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform 
Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545).
    Sec. 204.  Funds of the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
subject to the Government Corporation Control Act or section 402 of the 
Housing Act of 1950 shall be available, without regard to the 
limitations on administrative expenses, for legal services on a 
contract or fee basis, and for utilizing and making payment for 
services and facilities of the Federal National Mortgage Association, 
Government National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
Corporation, Federal Financing Bank, Federal Reserve banks or any 
member thereof, Federal Home Loan banks, and any insured bank within 
the meaning of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, as 
amended (12 U.S.C. 1811-1).
    Sec. 205.  Unless otherwise provided for in this Act or through a 
reprogramming of funds, no part of any appropriation for the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development shall be available for any program, 
project or activity in excess of amounts set forth in the budget 
estimates submitted to Congress.
    Sec. 206.  Corporations and agencies of the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development which are subject to the Government Corporation 
Control Act are hereby authorized to make such expenditures, within the 
limits of funds and borrowing authority available to each such 
corporation or agency and in accordance with law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 104 of such Act as may be necessary in carrying out 
the programs set forth in the budget for 2020 for such corporation or 
agency except as hereinafter provided:  Provided, That collections of 
these corporations and agencies may be used for new loan or mortgage 
purchase commitments only to the extent expressly provided for in this 
Act (unless such loans are in support of other forms of assistance 
provided for in this or prior appropriations Acts), except that this 
proviso shall not apply to the mortgage insurance or guaranty 
operations of these corporations, or where loans or mortgage purchases 
are necessary to protect the financial interest of the United States 
Government.
    Sec. 207.  The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall 
provide quarterly reports to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations regarding all uncommitted, unobligated, recaptured and 
excess funds in each program and activity within the jurisdiction of 
the Department and shall submit additional, updated budget information 
to these Committees upon request.
    Sec. 208.  The President's formal budget request for fiscal year 
2021, as well as the Department of Housing and Urban Development's 
congressional budget justifications to be submitted to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, shall 
use the identical account and sub-account structure provided under this 
Act.
    Sec. 209.  No funds provided under this title may be used for an 
audit of the Government National Mortgage Association that makes 
applicable requirements under the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 
U.S.C. 661 et seq.).
    Sec. 210. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, subject 
to the conditions listed under this section, for fiscal years 2020 and 
2021, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may authorize the 
transfer of some or all project-based assistance, debt held or insured 
by the Secretary and statutorily required low-income and very low-
income use restrictions if any, associated with one or more multifamily 
housing project or projects to another multifamily housing project or 
projects.
    (b) Phased Transfers.--Transfers of project-based assistance under 
this section may be done in phases to accommodate the financing and 
other requirements related to rehabilitating or constructing the 
project or projects to which the assistance is transferred, to ensure 
that such project or projects meet the standards under subsection (c).
    (c) The transfer authorized in subsection (a) is subject to the 
following conditions:
            (1) Number and bedroom size of units.--
                    (A) For occupied units in the transferring project: 
                The number of low-income and very low-income units and 
                the configuration (i.e., bedroom size) provided by the 
                transferring project shall be no less than when 
                transferred to the receiving project or projects and 
                the net dollar amount of Federal assistance provided to 
                the transferring project shall remain the same in the 
                receiving project or projects.
                    (B) For unoccupied units in the transferring 
                project: The Secretary may authorize a reduction in the 
                number of dwelling units in the receiving project or 
                projects to allow for a reconfiguration of bedroom 
                sizes to meet current market demands, as determined by 
                the Secretary and provided there is no increase in the 
                project-based assistance budget authority.
            (2) The transferring project shall, as determined by the 
        Secretary, be either physically obsolete or economically 
        nonviable.
            (3) The receiving project or projects shall meet or exceed 
        applicable physical standards established by the Secretary.
            (4) The owner or mortgagor of the transferring project 
        shall notify and consult with the tenants residing in the 
        transferring project and provide a certification of approval by 
        all appropriate local governmental officials.
            (5) The tenants of the transferring project who remain 
        eligible for assistance to be provided by the receiving project 
        or projects shall not be required to vacate their units in the 
        transferring project or projects until new units in the 
        receiving project are available for occupancy.
            (6) The Secretary determines that this transfer is in the 
        best interest of the tenants.
            (7) If either the transferring project or the receiving 
        project or projects meets the condition specified in subsection 
        (d)(2)(A), any lien on the receiving project resulting from 
        additional financing obtained by the owner shall be subordinate 
        to any FHA-insured mortgage lien transferred to, or placed on, 
        such project by the Secretary, except that the Secretary may 
        waive this requirement upon determination that such a waiver is 
        necessary to facilitate the financing of acquisition, 
        construction, and/or rehabilitation of the receiving project or 
        projects.
            (8) If the transferring project meets the requirements of 
        subsection (d)(2), the owner or mortgagor of the receiving 
        project or projects shall execute and record either a 
        continuation of the existing use agreement or a new use 
        agreement for the project where, in either case, any use 
        restrictions in such agreement are of no lesser duration than 
        the existing use restrictions.
            (9) The transfer does not increase the cost (as defined in 
        section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as 
        amended) of any FHA-insured mortgage, except to the extent that 
        appropriations are provided in advance for the amount of any 
        such increased cost.
    (d) For purposes of this section--
            (1) the terms ``low-income'' and ``very low-income'' shall 
        have the meanings provided by the statute and/or regulations 
        governing the program under which the project is insured or 
        assisted;
            (2) the term ``multifamily housing project'' means housing 
        that meets one of the following conditions--
                    (A) housing that is subject to a mortgage insured 
                under the National Housing Act;
                    (B) housing that has project-based assistance 
                attached to the structure including projects undergoing 
                mark to market debt restructuring under the Multifamily 
                Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Housing Act;
                    (C) housing that is assisted under section 202 of 
                the Housing Act of 1959, as amended by section 801 of 
                the Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act;
                    (D) housing that is assisted under section 202 of 
                the Housing Act of 1959, as such section existed before 
                the enactment of the Cranston-Gonzales National 
                Affordable Housing Act;
                    (E) housing that is assisted under section 811 of 
                the Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act; 
                or
                    (F) housing or vacant land that is subject to a use 
                agreement;
            (3) the term ``project-based assistance'' means--
                    (A) assistance provided under section 8(b) of the 
                United States Housing Act of 1937;
                    (B) assistance for housing constructed or 
                substantially rehabilitated pursuant to assistance 
                provided under section 8(b)(2) of such Act (as such 
                section existed immediately before October 1, 1983);
                    (C) rent supplement payments under section 101 of 
                the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965;
                    (D) interest reduction payments under section 236 
                and/or additional assistance payments under section 
                236(f)(2) of the National Housing Act;
                    (E) assistance payments made under section 
                202(c)(2) of the Housing Act of 1959; and
                    (F) assistance payments made under section 
                811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
                Housing Act;
            (4) the term ``receiving project or projects'' means the 
        multifamily housing project or projects to which some or all of 
        the project-based assistance, debt, and statutorily required 
        low-income and very low-income use restrictions are to be 
        transferred;
            (5) the term ``transferring project'' means the multifamily 
        housing project which is transferring some or all of the 
        project-based assistance, debt, and the statutorily required 
        low-income and very low-income use restrictions to the 
        receiving project or projects; and
            (6) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Housing 
        and Urban Development.
    (e) Research Report.--The Secretary shall conduct an evaluation of 
the transfer authority under this section, including the effect of such 
transfers on the operational efficiency, contract rents, physical and 
financial conditions, and long-term preservation of the affected 
properties.
    Sec. 211. (a) No assistance shall be provided under section 8 of 
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) to any 
individual who--
            (1) is enrolled as a student at an institution of higher 
        education (as defined under section 102 of the Higher Education 
        Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002));
            (2) is under 24 years of age;
            (3) is not a veteran;
            (4) is unmarried;
            (5) does not have a dependent child;
            (6) is not a person with disabilities, as such term is 
        defined in section 3(b)(3)(E) of the United States Housing Act 
        of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(3)(E)) and was not receiving 
        assistance under such section 8 as of November 30, 2005;
            (7) is not a youth who left foster care at age 14 or older 
        and is at risk of becoming homeless; and
            (8) is not otherwise individually eligible, or has parents 
        who, individually or jointly, are not eligible, to receive 
        assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 
        1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
    (b) For purposes of determining the eligibility of a person to 
receive assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), any financial assistance (in excess of amounts 
received for tuition and any other required fees and charges) that an 
individual receives under the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1001 et seq.), from private sources, or an institution of higher 
education (as defined under the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1002)), shall be considered income to that individual, except for a 
person over the age of 23 with dependent children.
    Sec. 212.  The funds made available for Native Alaskans under the 
heading ``Native American Housing Block Grants'' in title II of this 
Act shall be allocated to the same Native Alaskan housing block grant 
recipients that received funds in fiscal year 2005.
    Sec. 213.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in fiscal 
year 2020, in managing and disposing of any multifamily property that 
is owned or has a mortgage held by the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development, and during the process of foreclosure on any property with 
a contract for rental assistance payments under section 8 of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 or other Federal programs, the Secretary 
shall maintain any rental assistance payments under section 8 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 and other programs that are attached 
to any dwelling units in the property. To the extent the Secretary 
determines, in consultation with the tenants and the local government, 
that such a multifamily property owned or held by the Secretary is not 
feasible for continued rental assistance payments under such section 8 
or other programs, based on consideration of: (1) the costs of 
rehabilitating and operating the property and all available Federal, 
State, and local resources, including rent adjustments under section 
524 of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 
1997 (``MAHRAA''); and (2) environmental conditions that cannot be 
remedied in a cost-effective fashion, the Secretary may, in 
consultation with the tenants of that property, contract for project-
based rental assistance payments with an owner or owners of other 
existing housing properties, or provide other rental assistance. The 
Secretary shall also take appropriate steps to ensure that project-
based contracts remain in effect prior to foreclosure, subject to the 
exercise of contractual abatement remedies to assist relocation of 
tenants for imminent major threats to health and safety after written 
notice to and informed consent of the affected tenants and use of other 
available remedies, such as partial abatements or receivership. After 
disposition of any multifamily property described under this section, 
the contract and allowable rent levels on such properties shall be 
subject to the requirements under section 524 of MAHRAA.
    Sec. 214.  Public housing agencies that own and operate 400 or 
fewer public housing units may elect to be exempt from any asset 
management requirement imposed by the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development in connection with the operating fund rule:  Provided, That 
an agency seeking a discontinuance of a reduction of subsidy under the 
operating fund formula shall not be exempt from asset management 
requirements.
    Sec. 215.  With respect to the use of amounts provided in this Act 
and in future Acts for the operation, capital improvement and 
management of public housing as authorized by sections 9(d) and 9(e) of 
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(d) and (e)), the 
Secretary shall not impose any requirement or guideline relating to 
asset management that restricts or limits in any way the use of capital 
funds for central office costs pursuant to section 9(g)(1) or 9(g)(2) 
of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(g)(1), (2)):  
Provided, That a public housing agency may not use capital funds 
authorized under section 9(d) for activities that are eligible under 
section 9(e) for assistance with amounts from the operating fund in 
excess of the amounts permitted under section 9(g)(1) or 9(g)(2).
    Sec. 216.  No official or employee of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development shall be designated as an allotment holder unless the 
Office of the Chief Financial Officer has determined that such 
allotment holder has implemented an adequate system of funds control 
and has received training in funds control procedures and directives. 
The Chief Financial Officer shall ensure that there is a trained 
allotment holder for each HUD appropriation under the accounts 
``Executive Offices'' and ``Administrative Support Offices'', as well 
as each paragraph receiving appropriations under the heading ``Program 
Office Salaries and Expenses'', ``Government National Mortgage 
Association--Guarantees of Mortgage-Backed Securities Loan Guarantee 
Program Account'', and ``Office of Inspector General'' within the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
    Sec. 217.  The Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development shall, for fiscal year 2020, notify the public through the 
Federal Register and other means, as determined appropriate, of the 
issuance of a notice of the availability of assistance or notice of 
funding availability (NOFA) for any program or discretionary fund 
administered by the Secretary that is to be competitively awarded. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for fiscal year 2020, the 
Secretary may make the NOFA available only on the Internet at the 
appropriate Government web site or through other electronic media, as 
determined by the Secretary.
    Sec. 218.  Payment of attorney fees in program-related litigation 
shall be paid from the individual program office and Office of General 
Counsel salaries and expenses appropriations. The annual budget 
submission for the program offices and the Office of General Counsel 
shall include any such projected litigation costs for attorney fees as 
a separate line item request. No funds provided in this title may be 
used to pay any such litigation costs for attorney fees until the 
Department submits for review a spending plan for such costs to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 219.  The Secretary is authorized to transfer up to 10 percent 
or $5,000,000, whichever is less, of funds appropriated for any office 
under the heading ``Administrative Support Offices'' or for any 
paragraph under the heading ``Program Office Salaries and Expenses'' to 
any other such office or account:  Provided, That no appropriation for 
any such office or account shall be increased or decreased by more than 
10 percent or $5,000,000, whichever is less, without prior written 
approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations:  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall provide notification to such 
Committees three business days in advance of any such transfers under 
this section up to 10 percent or $5,000,000, whichever is less.
    Sec. 220. (a) Any entity receiving housing assistance payments 
shall maintain decent, safe, and sanitary conditions, as determined by 
the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (in this section 
referred to as the ``Secretary''), and comply with any standards under 
applicable State or local laws, rules, ordinances, or regulations 
relating to the physical condition of any property covered under a 
housing assistance payment contract.
    (b) The Secretary shall take action under subsection (c) when a 
multifamily housing project with a section 8 contract or contract for 
similar project-based assistance--
            (1) receives a Uniform Physical Condition Standards (UPCS) 
        score of 60 or less; or
            (2) fails to certify in writing to the Secretary within 3 
        days that all Exigent Health and Safety deficiencies identified 
        by the inspector at the project have been corrected.
Such requirements shall apply to insured and noninsured projects with 
assistance attached to the units under section 8 of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), but do not apply to such units 
assisted under section 8(o)(13) (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(13)) or to public 
housing units assisted with capital or operating funds under section 9 
of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g).
    (c)(1) Within 15 days of the issuance of the REAC inspection, the 
Secretary must provide the owner with a Notice of Default with a 
specified timetable, determined by the Secretary, for correcting all 
deficiencies. The Secretary must also provide a copy of the Notice of 
Default to the tenants, the local government, any mortgagees, and any 
contract administrator. If the owner's appeal results in a UPCS score 
of 60 or above, the Secretary may withdraw the Notice of Default.
    (2) At the end of the time period for correcting all deficiencies 
specified in the Notice of Default, if the owner fails to fully correct 
such deficiencies, the Secretary may--
            (A) require immediate replacement of project management 
        with a management agent approved by the Secretary;
            (B) impose civil money penalties, which shall be used 
        solely for the purpose of supporting safe and sanitary 
        conditions at applicable properties, as designated by the 
        Secretary, with priority given to the tenants of the property 
        affected by the penalty;
            (C) abate the section 8 contract, including partial 
        abatement, as determined by the Secretary, until all 
        deficiencies have been corrected;
            (D) pursue transfer of the project to an owner, approved by 
        the Secretary under established procedures, which will be 
        obligated to promptly make all required repairs and to accept 
        renewal of the assistance contract as long as such renewal is 
        offered;
            (E) transfer the existing section 8 contract to another 
        project or projects and owner or owners;
            (F) pursue exclusionary sanctions, including suspensions or 
        debarments from Federal programs;
            (G) seek judicial appointment of a receiver to manage the 
        property and cure all project deficiencies or seek a judicial 
        order of specific performance requiring the owner to cure all 
        project deficiencies;
            (H) work with the owner, lender, or other related party to 
        stabilize the property in an attempt to preserve the property 
        through compliance, transfer of ownership, or an infusion of 
        capital provided by a third-party that requires time to 
        effectuate; or
            (I) take any other regulatory or contractual remedies 
        available as deemed necessary and appropriate by the Secretary.
    (d) The Secretary shall also take appropriate steps to ensure that 
project-based contracts remain in effect, subject to the exercise of 
contractual abatement remedies to assist relocation of tenants for 
major threats to health and safety after written notice to the affected 
tenants. To the extent the Secretary determines, in consultation with 
the tenants and the local government, that the property is not feasible 
for continued rental assistance payments under such section 8 or other 
programs, based on consideration of--
            (1) the costs of rehabilitating and operating the property 
        and all available Federal, State, and local resources, 
        including rent adjustments under section 524 of the Multifamily 
        Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997 
        (``MAHRAA''); and
            (2) environmental conditions that cannot be remedied in a 
        cost-effective fashion, the Secretary may contract for project-
        based rental assistance payments with an owner or owners of 
        other existing housing properties, or provide other rental 
        assistance.
    (e) The Secretary shall report quarterly on all properties covered 
by this section that are assessed through the Real Estate Assessment 
Center and have UPCS physical inspection scores of less than 60 or have 
received an unsatisfactory management and occupancy review within the 
past 36 months. The report shall include--
            (1) the enforcement actions being taken to address such 
        conditions, including imposition of civil money penalties and 
        termination of subsidies, and identify properties that have 
        such conditions multiple times;
            (2) actions that the Department of Housing and Urban 
        Development is taking to protect tenants of such identified 
        properties; and
            (3) any administrative or legislative recommendations to 
        further improve the living conditions at properties covered 
        under a housing assistance payment contract.
This report shall be due to the Senate and House Committees on 
Appropriations no later than 30 days after the enactment of this Act, 
and on the first business day of each Federal fiscal year quarter 
thereafter while this section remains in effect.
    Sec. 221.  None of the funds made available by this Act, or any 
other Act, for purposes authorized under section 8 (only with respect 
to the tenant-based rental assistance program) and section 9 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.), may be used 
by any public housing agency for any amount of salary, including 
bonuses, for the chief executive officer of which, or any other 
official or employee of which, that exceeds the annual rate of basic 
pay payable for a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule at any 
time during any public housing agency fiscal year 2020.
    Sec. 222.  None of the funds in this Act provided to the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development may be used to make a grant award 
unless the Secretary notifies the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations not less than 3 full business days before any project, 
State, locality, housing authority, tribe, nonprofit organization, or 
other entity selected to receive a grant award is announced by the 
Department or its offices.
    Sec. 223.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to require or enforce the Physical Needs Assessment (PNA).
    Sec. 224.  None of the funds made available in this Act shall be 
used by the Federal Housing Administration, the Government National 
Mortgage Administration, or the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development to insure, securitize, or establish a Federal guarantee of 
any mortgage or mortgage backed security that refinances or otherwise 
replaces a mortgage that has been subject to eminent domain 
condemnation or seizure, by a State, municipality, or any other 
political subdivision of a State.
    Sec. 225.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to terminate the status of a unit of general local government as a 
metropolitan city (as defined in section 102 of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302)) with respect to 
grants under section 106 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 5306).
    Sec. 226.  Amounts made available under this Act which are either 
appropriated, allocated, advanced on a reimbursable basis, or 
transferred to the Office of Policy Development and Research in the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development and functions thereof, for 
research, evaluation, or statistical purposes, and which are unexpended 
at the time of completion of a contract, grant, or cooperative 
agreement, may be deobligated and shall immediately become available 
and may be reobligated in that fiscal year or the subsequent fiscal 
year for the research, evaluation, or statistical purposes for which 
the amounts are made available to that Office subject to reprogramming 
requirements in section 405 of this Act.
    Sec. 227.  Funds made available in this title under the heading 
``Homeless Assistance Grants'' may be used by the Secretary to 
participate in Performance Partnership Pilots authorized under section 
526 of division H of Public Law 113-76, section 524 of division G of 
Public Law 113-235, section 525 of division H of Public Law 114-113, 
and such authorities as are enacted for Performance Partnership Pilots 
in an appropriations Act for fiscal year 2019:  Provided, That such 
participation shall be limited to no more than 10 continuums of care 
and housing activities to improve outcomes for disconnected youth.
    Sec. 228.  With respect to grant amounts awarded under the heading 
``Homeless Assistance Grants'' for fiscal years 2015 and subsequent 
fiscal years for the continuum of care (CoC) program as authorized 
under subtitle C of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance 
Act, costs paid by program income of grant recipients may count toward 
meeting the recipient's matching requirements, provided the costs are 
eligible CoC costs that supplement the recipient's CoC program.
    Sec. 229. (a) From amounts made available under this title under 
the heading ``Homeless Assistance Grants'', the Secretary may award 1-
year transition grants to recipients of funds for activities under 
subtitle C of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
11381 et seq.) to transition from one Continuum of Care program 
component to another.
    (b) No more than 50 percent of each transition grant may be used 
for costs of eligible activities of the program component originally 
funded.
    (c) Transition grants made under this section are eligible for 
renewal in subsequent fiscal years for the eligible activities of the 
new program component.
    (d) In order to be eligible to receive a transition grant, the 
funding recipient must have the consent of the Continuum of Care and 
meet standards determined by the Secretary.
    Sec. 230.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Department of Housing and Urban Development to direct a grantee 
to undertake specific changes to existing zoning laws as part of 
carrying out the final rule entitled ``Affirmatively Furthering Fair 
Housing'' (80 Fed. Reg. 42272 (July 16, 2015)) or the notice entitled 
``Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing Assessment Tool'' (79 Fed. Reg. 
57949 (September 26, 2014)).
    Sec. 231. (a) Establishment of Fund.--There is hereby established 
in the Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as HUD HAG Fund 
(in this section referred to as the ``Fund'').
    (b) Credits to Fund.--
            (1) Future transfers.--Unobligated balances of recaptured 
        funds (except for amounts necessary for grant amount 
        corrections) appropriated by any Act in this or any subsequent 
        fiscal year under the account for ``Department of Housing and 
        Urban Development--Community Planning and Development--Homeless 
        Assistance Grants'' (in this section referred to as the ``HAG 
        account'') shall be transferred into the Fund.
            (2) Rescission and availability of fiscal year 2018 
        amounts.--Of any amounts appropriated under the HAG account by 
        the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related 
        Agencies Appropriations Act, 2018 (division L of Public Law 
        115-141), 90 percent of any balances remaining unobligated as 
        of September 1, 2020, are hereby rescinded, and an amount of 
        additional new budget authority equivalent to the amount 
        rescinded is hereby appropriated and shall be transferred to 
        the Fund.
    (c) Purposes.--Amounts transferred to the Fund shall be available 
until expended, and in addition to such other funds as may be available 
for such purposes, only for the following purposes:
            (1) For grants under the Continuum of Care program under 
        subtitle C of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
        Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11381 et seq.).
            (2) For grants under the Emergency Solutions Grant program 
        under subtitle B of title IV of such Act (42 U.S.C. 11371 et 
        seq.).
            (3) Not less than 10 percent of amounts transferred to the 
        Fund shall be used only for grants, as established and 
        determined by the Secretary, in rural areas.
            (4) Not less than 10 percent of amounts transferred to the 
        Fund shall be used for grants, as established and determined by 
        the Secretary, only pursuant to the declaration of a major 
        disaster under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
        Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) in the most 
        impacted and distressed areas resulting from such disaster.
    (d) Transfer for Use.--
            (1) Amounts in the Fund shall be transferred to the HAG 
        account before obligation and expenditure.
            (2) Amounts in the Fund may be transferred to the HAG 
        account only after the expiration of the 15-day period 
        beginning upon the day that the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
        Development submits written notice to the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
        of the planned use of such transferred amounts, except that 
        amounts transferred for the purposes specified in subsection 
        (c)(4) may be transferred with concurrent written notice to 
        such Committees.
    Sec. 232.  The Promise Zone designations and Promise Zone 
Designation Agreements entered into pursuant to such designations, made 
by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in prior fiscal 
years, shall remain in effect in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of such agreements.
    Sec. 233.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to establish and apply review criteria, including rating factors or 
preference points, for participation in or coordination with EnVision 
Centers, in the evaluation, selection, and award of any funds made 
available and requiring competitive selection under this Act, except 
with respect to any such funds otherwise authorized for EnVision Center 
purposes under this Act.
    Sec. 234.  None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development by this or any other Act may be used to 
implement, administer, enforce, or in any way make effective the 
proposed rule entitled ``Housing and Community Development Act of 1980: 
Verification of Eligible Status'', issued by the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development on May 10, 2019 (Docket No. FR-6124-P-01), or any 
final rule based substantially on such proposed rule.
    Sec. 235. (a) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall 
make available to grantees under programs included under the 
Department's Consolidated Planning Process, not later than the 
expiration of the 90-day period beginning on the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the prepopulated up-to-date housing and economic data and 
data for both broadband and resilience assessment requirements, as 
referred to in the HUD Response to the third comment under section 
III.A. of the Supplementary Information included with the final rule 
entitled ``Modernizing HUD's Consolidated Planning Process To Narrow 
the Digital Divide and Increase Resilience to Natural Hazards'', 
published by the Department of Housing and Urban Development in the 
Federal Register on Friday, December 16, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 91000).
    (b) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall require 
such grantees to incorporate the broadband and resilience components 
into the Consolidated Plan process not later than the expiration of the 
270-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 236.  None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development by this or any other Act may be used to 
implement, administer, enforce, or in any way make effective any rule 
making any change to the rule entitled ``Equal Access in Accordance 
With an Individual's Gender Identity in Community Planning and 
Development Programs'' published by the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development in the Federal Register on September 21, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 
64763) or to the rule entitled ``Equal Access to Housing in HUD 
Programs Regardless of Sexual Orientation or Gender Identity'' 
published by such Department in the Federal Register on February 3, 
2012 (77 Fed. Reg. 5662).
    Sec. 237.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the notice 
issued by the Department of Housing and Urban Development on February 
20, 2015, and entitled ``Appropriate Placement for Transgender Persons 
in Single-Sex Emergency Shelters and Other Facilities'' (Notice CPD-15-
02) shall have the force and effect of law.
    Sec. 238.  The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may not, 
in this fiscal year or any fiscal year thereafter, implement, require, 
enforce, or otherwise make effective any change, amendment, or 
alteration to any term or condition of the Annual Contributions 
Contract between the Secretary and any public housing agency, as such 
contract was in effect as of January 1, 2018, unless such change, 
amendment, or alteration is made pursuant to a rule issued after notice 
and an opportunity for public comment and in accordance with the 
procedure under section 553 of title 5, United States Code, applicable 
to substantive rules.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Housing and Urban 
Development Appropriations Act, 2020''.

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                              Access Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Access Board, as authorized by 
section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, $8,400,000 
(increased by $800,000):  Provided, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, there may be credited to this appropriation funds 
received for publications and training expenses.

                      Federal Maritime Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Maritime Commission as 
authorized by section 201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as 
amended (46 U.S.C. 307), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 
1343(b); and uniforms or allowances therefore, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 5901-5902, $28,000,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $2,000 
shall be available for official reception and representation expenses.

                National Railroad Passenger Corporation

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General for the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation to carry out the provisions of 
the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $23,274,000:  Provided, 
That the Inspector General shall have all necessary authority, in 
carrying out the duties specified in the Inspector General Act, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate allegations of fraud, 
including false statements to the government (18 U.S.C. 1001), by any 
person or entity that is subject to regulation by the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation:  Provided further, That the Inspector General 
may enter into contracts and other arrangements for audits, studies, 
analyses, and other services with public agencies and with private 
persons, subject to the applicable laws and regulations that govern the 
obtaining of such services within the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation:  Provided further, That the Inspector General may select, 
appoint, and employ such officers and employees as may be necessary for 
carrying out the functions, powers, and duties of the Office of 
Inspector General, subject to the applicable laws and regulations that 
govern such selections, appointments, and employment within the 
Corporation:  Provided further, That concurrent with the President's 
budget request for fiscal year 2021, the Inspector General shall submit 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations a budget request 
for fiscal year 2021 in similar format and substance to those submitted 
by executive agencies of the Federal Government.

                  National Transportation Safety Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation Safety Board, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for a GS-15; uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902), 
$110,400,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 may be used for official 
reception and representation expenses. The amounts made available to 
the National Transportation Safety Board in this Act include amounts 
necessary to make lease payments on an obligation incurred in fiscal 
year 2001 for a capital lease.

                 Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation

          payment to the neighborhood reinvestment corporation

    For payment to the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation for use in 
neighborhood reinvestment activities, as authorized by the Neighborhood 
Reinvestment Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 8101-8107), $170,000,000, of 
which $5,000,000 shall be for a multi-family rental housing program.

                      Surface Transportation Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Surface Transportation Board, 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $37,100,000:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed 
$1,250,000 from fees established by the Chairman of the Surface 
Transportation Board shall be credited to this appropriation as 
offsetting collections and used for necessary and authorized expenses 
under this heading:  Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated 
from the general fund shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis as 
such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2020, to 
result in a final appropriation from the general fund estimated at no 
more than $35,850,000.

           United States Interagency Council on Homelessness

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses (including payment of salaries, authorized 
travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the rental of conference 
rooms, and the employment of experts and consultants under section 3109 
of title 5, United States Code) of the United States Interagency 
Council on Homelessness in carrying out the functions pursuant to title 
II of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, as amended, 
$4,100,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021.

                                TITLE IV

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

    Sec. 401.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 402.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may any be 
transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 403.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through a procurement contract pursuant to 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.
    Sec. 404. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some 
        participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 405.  Except as otherwise provided in this Act, none of the 
funds provided in this Act, provided by previous appropriations Acts to 
the agencies or entities funded in this Act that remain available for 
obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2020, or provided from any 
accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of fees and 
available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that--
            (1) creates a new program;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
        or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted by 
        the Congress;
            (4) proposes to use funds directed for a specific activity 
        by either the House or Senate Committees on Appropriations for 
        a different purpose;
            (5) augments existing programs, projects, or activities in 
        excess of $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less;
            (6) reduces existing programs, projects, or activities by 
        $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
            (7) creates, reorganizes, or restructures a branch, 
        division, office, bureau, board, commission, agency, 
        administration, or department different from the budget 
        justifications submitted to the Committees on Appropriations or 
        the table accompanying the joint explanatory statement 
        accompanying this Act, whichever is more detailed, unless prior 
        approval is received from the House and Senate Committees on 
        Appropriations:  Provided, That not later than 60 days after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, each agency funded by this 
        Act shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations 
        of the Senate and of the House of Representatives to establish 
        the baseline for application of reprogramming and transfer 
        authorities for the current fiscal year:  Provided further, 
        That the report shall include--
                    (A) a table for each appropriation with a separate 
                column to display the prior year enacted level, the 
                President's budget request, adjustments made by 
                Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if 
                appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level;
                    (B) a delineation in the table for each 
                appropriation and its respective prior year enacted 
                level by object class and program, project, and 
                activity as detailed in this Act, the table 
                accompanying the explanatory statement accompanying 
                this Act, accompanying reports of the House and Senate 
                Committee on Appropriations, or in the budget appendix 
                for the respective appropriations, whichever is more 
                detailed, and shall apply to all items for which a 
                dollar amount is specified and to all programs for 
                which new budget (obligational) authority is provided, 
                as well as to discretionary grants and discretionary 
                grant allocations; and
                    (C) an identification of items of special 
                congressional interest.
    Sec. 406.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the 
end of fiscal year 2020 from appropriations made available for salaries 
and expenses for fiscal year 2020 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 2021, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized:  Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the 
expenditure of such funds:  Provided further, That these requests shall 
be made in compliance with reprogramming guidelines under section 405 
of this Act.
    Sec. 407.  No funds in this Act may be used to support any Federal, 
State, or local projects that seek to use the power of eminent domain, 
unless eminent domain is employed only for a public use:  Provided, 
That for purposes of this section, public use shall not be construed to 
include economic development that primarily benefits private entities:  
Provided further, That any use of funds for mass transit, railroad, 
airport, seaport or highway projects, as well as utility projects which 
benefit or serve the general public (including energy-related, 
communication-related, water-related and wastewater-related 
infrastructure), other structures designated for use by the general 
public or which have other common-carrier or public-utility functions 
that serve the general public and are subject to regulation and 
oversight by the government, and projects for the removal of an 
immediate threat to public health and safety or brownfields as defined 
in the Small Business Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization 
Act (Public Law 107-118) shall be considered a public use for purposes 
of eminent domain.
    Sec. 408.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 409.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available to pay the salary for any person filling a position, other 
than a temporary position, formerly held by an employee who has left to 
enter the Armed Forces of the United States and has satisfactorily 
completed his or her period of active military or naval service, and 
has within 90 days after his or her release from such service or from 
hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not more 
than 1 year, made application for restoration to his or her former 
position and has been certified by the Office of Personnel Management 
as still qualified to perform the duties of his or her former position 
and has not been restored thereto.
    Sec. 410.  No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
assistance the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act 
of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 8301-8305, popularly known as the ``Buy 
American Act'').
    Sec. 411.  No funds appropriated or otherwise made available under 
this Act shall be made available to any person or entity that has been 
convicted of violating the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 8301-8305).
    Sec. 412.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for first-class airline accommodations in contravention of sections 
301-10.122 and 301-10.123 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 413. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to approve a new foreign air carrier permit under sections 41301 
through 41305 of title 49, United States Code, or exemption application 
under section 40109 of that title of an air carrier already holding an 
air operators certificate issued by a country that is party to the 
U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air Transport Agreement where such approval 
would contravene United States law or Article 17 bis of the U.S.-E.U.-
Iceland-Norway Air Transport Agreement.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict or otherwise 
preclude the Secretary of Transportation from granting a foreign air 
carrier permit or an exemption to such an air carrier where such 
authorization is consistent with the U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air 
Transport Agreement and United States law.
    Sec. 414.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more than 50 employees 
of a single agency or department of the United States Government, who 
are stationed in the United States, at any single international 
conference unless the relevant Secretary reports to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations at least 5 days in advance that 
such attendance is important to the national interest:  Provided, That 
for purposes of this section the term ``international conference'' 
shall mean a conference occurring outside of the United States attended 
by representatives of the United States Government and of foreign 
governments, international organizations, or nongovernmental 
organizations.
    Sec. 415.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act may be used by the Surface Transportation 
Board to charge or collect any filing fee for rate or practice 
complaints filed with the Board in an amount in excess of the amount 
authorized for district court civil suit filing fees under section 1914 
of title 28, United States Code.
    Sec. 416.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Department of Transportation, the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development, or any other Federal agency to lease or purchase new 
light duty vehicles for any executive fleet, or for an agency's fleet 
inventory, except in accordance with Presidential Memorandum--Federal 
Fleet Performance, dated May 24, 2011.
    Sec. 417. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.
    Sec. 418. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to deny an Inspector General funded under this Act timely access 
to any records, documents, or other materials available to the 
department or agency over which that Inspector General has 
responsibilities under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
App.), or to prevent or impede that Inspector General's access to such 
records, documents, or other materials, under any provision of law, 
except a provision of law that expressly refers to the Inspector 
General and expressly limits the Inspector General's right of access.
    (b) A department or agency covered by this section shall provide 
its Inspector General with access to all such records, documents, and 
other materials in a timely manner. A department or agency shall not 
withhold or delay access by the Inspector General in order to conduct 
internal reviews of responsive documents, nor shall privileges 
preventing release of agency documents to third parties be a basis for 
withholding or delaying access to the Inspector General.
    (c) Each Inspector General shall ensure compliance with statutory 
limitations on disclosure relevant to the information provided by the 
establishment over which that Inspector General has responsibilities 
under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
    (d) Each Inspector General covered by this section shall report to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate within 5 calendar days any failures to comply with this 
requirement. Within 5 calendar days of the Inspector General's report, 
the department or agency will provide the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate with an accounting of 
timeframe and efforts by the agency to provide OIG access.
    Sec. 419.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to pay award or incentive fees for 
contractors whose performance has been judged to be below satisfactory, 
behind schedule, over budget, or has failed to meet the basic 
requirements of a contract, unless the Agency determines that any such 
deviations are due to unforeseeable events, government-driven scope 
changes, or are not significant within the overall scope of the project 
and/or program unless such awards or incentive fees are consistent with 
16.401(e)(2) of the Federal Acquisition Regulations.
    Sec. 420.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in this division shall be treated as referring 
only to the provisions of this division.
    Sec. 421.  Any reference to a ``report accompanying this Act'' 
contained in this division shall be treated as a reference to House 
Report 116-106. The effect of such Report shall be limited to this 
division and shall apply for purposes of determining the allocation of 
funds provided by, and the implementation of, this division.
    Sec. 422.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 5309(d)(2) of title 49, United States Code.
    Sec. 423.  None of the funds made available by this division may be 
used to issue rules or guidance in contravention of section 1210 of 
Public Law 115-254 (132 Stat. 3442) or section 312 of the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155).
    Sec. 424.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of Executive Order No. 13858.
    Sec. 425.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the National Railroad Passenger Corporation in contravention of the 
Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (29 U.S.C. 2101 et 
seq.).
    Sec. 426.  None of the funds made available by this division may be 
used to deny eligibility of a single family mortgage for insurance 
under title II of the National Housing Act on the basis of the status 
of the mortgagor as an alien in deferred action status pursuant to the 
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (`DACA') Program announced by 
the Secretary of Homeland Security on June 15, 2012.
    Sec. 427.  None of the funds made available by this division may be 
used in contravention of section 2635.702 of title 5, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 428.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to carry out section 4(b) of Executive Order No. 13868 or to issue a 
special permit under section 107.105 of title 49, Code of Federal 
Regulations, that allows liquified natural gas to move by rail tank 
car.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Transportation, Housing and Urban 
Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2020''.

DIVISION F--FAIR COMPENSATION FOR LOW-WAGE CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES ACT OF 
                                  2019

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Fair Compensation for Low-Wage 
Contractor Employees Act of 2019''.

SEC. 2. APPROPRIATION.

    There is hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended, for each Federal agency subject to the lapse 
in appropriations that began on or about December 22, 2018, for 
adjustments in the price of contracts of such agency under section 3.

SEC. 3. BACK COMPENSATION FOR LOW-WAGE EMPLOYEES OF GOVERNMENT 
              CONTRACTORS IN CONNECTION WITH THE LAPSE IN 
              APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Each Federal agency subject to the lapse in 
appropriations that began on or about December 22, 2018, shall adjust 
the price of any contract of such agency for which the contractor was 
ordered to suspend, delay, or interrupt all or part of the work of such 
contract, or stop all or any part of the work called for in such 
contract, as a result of the lapse in appropriations to compensate the 
contractor for reasonable costs incurred--
            (1) to provide compensation, at an employee's standard rate 
        of compensation, to any employee who was furloughed or laid 
        off, or who was not working, who experienced a reduction of 
        hours, or who experienced a reduction in compensation, as a 
        result of the lapse in appropriations (for the period of the 
        lapse); or
            (2) to restore paid leave taken by any employee during the 
        lapse in appropriations, if the contractor required employees 
        to use paid leave as a result of the lapse in appropriations.
    (b) Limitation on Amount of Weekly Compensation Covered by 
Adjustment.--The maximum amount of weekly compensation of an employee 
for which an adjustment may be made under subsection (a) may not exceed 
the lesser of--
            (1) the employee's actual weekly compensation; or
            (2) $965.
    (c) Timing of Adjustments.--The adjustments required by subsection 
(a) shall be made as soon as practicable after the enactment of this 
Act.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``compensation'' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 6701 of title 41, United States Code.
            (2) The term ``employee'' means the following:
                    (A) A ``service employee'' as that term is defined 
                in section 6701(3) of title 41, United States Code, 
                except that the term also includes service employees 
                described in subparagraph (C) of that section 
                notwithstanding that subparagraph.
                    (B) A ``laborer or mechanic'' covered by section 
                3142 of title 40, United States Code.

SEC. 4. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This division shall take effect upon the date of enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 5. BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    (a) Classification of Budgetary Effects.--Notwithstanding Rule 3 of 
the Budget Scorekeeping Guidelines set forth in the joint explanatory 
statement of the committee of conference accompanying Conference Report 
105-217 and section 250(c)(8) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, the budgetary effects of this division 
shall not be estimated--
            (1) for purposes of section 251 of such Act; and
            (2) for purposes of paragraph (4)(C) of section 3 of the 
        Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 as being included in an 
        appropriation Act.
    (b) Determination of Budgetary Effects.--The budgetary effects of 
this division, for the purpose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest 
statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation'' for this 
division, submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the 
Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that such statement 
has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.

                    DIVISION G--EMPLOYMENT AUTHORITY

    Sec. 1.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an entity may 
use amounts appropriated or otherwise made available under the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2020, to pay the compensation of 
an officer or employee without regard to the officer's or employee's 
immigration status if the officer or employee has been issued an 
employment authorization document under the Deferred Action for 
Childhood Arrivals Program of the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
established pursuant to the memorandum from the Secretary of Homeland 
Security entitled ``Exercising Prosecutorial Discretion with Respect to 
Individuals Who Came to the United States as Children'', dated June 15, 
2012.
    Sec. 2.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation, 
an alien who is authorized to be employed in the United States pursuant 
to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program established under 
the memorandum of the Secretary of Homeland Security dated June 15, 
2012, shall be eligible for employment by the Government (including any 
entity the majority of the stock of which is owned by the Government).

            Passed the House of Representatives June 25, 2019.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
116th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 3055

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

  Making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce and Justice, 
Science, and Related Agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
                     2020, and for other purposes.
