116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1668

To leverage Federal Government procurement power to encourage increased 
 cybersecurity for Internet of Things devices, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 11, 2019

Ms. Kelly of Illinois (for herself, Mr. Hurd of Texas, Mr. Khanna, Mr. 
Budd, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Marshall, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. 
Ratcliffe, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Soto, Mr. Walker, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Foster, 
and Mr. Baird) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
Committee on Oversight and Reform, and in addition to the Committee on 
    Science, Space, and Technology, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To leverage Federal Government procurement power to encourage increased 
 cybersecurity for Internet of Things devices, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Internet of Things Cybersecurity 
Improvement Act of 2019'' or the ``IoT Cybersecurity Improvement Act of 
2019''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Agency.--The term ``agency'' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 3502 of title 44, United States Code.
            (2) Covered device.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``covered device'' means 
                a physical object that--
                            (i) is capable of connecting to and is in 
                        regular connection with the internet;
                            (ii) has computer processing capabilities 
                        that can collect, send, or receive data; and
                            (iii) is not a general-purpose computing 
                        device, including personal computing systems, 
                        smart mobile communications devices, 
                        programmable logic controls, and mainframe 
                        computing systems.
                    (B) Modification of definition.--The Director of 
                the Office of Management and Budget shall establish a 
                process by which--
                            (i) interested parties may petition for a 
                        device that is not described in subparagraph 
                        (A) to be considered a device that is not a 
                        covered device; and
                            (ii) the Director acts upon any petition 
                        submitted under clause (i) in a timely manner.
            (3) Security vulnerability.--The term ``security 
        vulnerability'' means any attribute of hardware, firmware, 
        software, or combination of 2 or more of these factors that 
        could enable the compromise of the confidentiality, integrity, 
        or availability of an information system or its information or 
        physical devices to which it is connected.

SEC. 3. NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY CONSIDERATIONS 
              AND RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDING MANAGING INTERNET OF THINGS 
              CYBERSECURITY RISKS.

    (a) Completion of Ongoing Efforts Relating to Considerations for 
Managing Internet of Things Cybersecurity Risks.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of the National Institute of 
        Standards and Technology shall ensure that the efforts of the 
        Institute in effect on the date of the enactment of this Act 
        regarding considerations for managing Internet of Things 
        cybersecurity risks, especially regarding examples of possible 
        cybersecurity capabilities of Internet of Things devices, are 
        completed no later than September 30, 2019.
            (2) Matters addressed.--In ensuring efforts are completed 
        under paragraph (1), the Director shall also ensure that such 
        efforts address, at a minimum, the following considerations for 
        covered devices:
                    (A) Secure Development.
                    (B) Identity management.
                    (C) Patching.
                    (D) Configuration management.
    (b) Development of Recommended Standards for Use of Internet of 
Things Devices by Federal Government.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 31, 2020, the 
        Director of the Institute shall develop recommendations for the 
        Federal Government on the appropriate use and management by the 
        Federal Government of Internet of Things devices owned or 
        controlled by the Federal Government, including minimum 
        information security requirements for managing cybersecurity 
        risks associated with such devices.
            (2) Consistency with ongoing efforts.--The Director of the 
        Institute shall ensure that the recommendations and standards 
        developed under paragraph (1) are consistent with the efforts 
        referred to in subsection (a), especially with respect to the 
        examples of possible cybersecurity capabilities referred to in 
        such subsection.
    (c)  Institute Report on Cybersecurity Considerations Stemming From 
the Convergence of Information Technology, Internet of Things, and 
Operational Technology Devices, Networks and Systems.--Not later than 
180 days following the enactment of this Act, the Director of the 
Institute shall publish a draft report related to the increasing 
convergence of traditional Information Technology devices, networks, 
and systems with Internet of Things devices, networks and systems and 
Operational Technology devices, networks and systems, including 
considerations for managing cybersecurity risks associated with such 
trends.

SEC. 4. POLICIES FOR FEDERAL AGENCIES ON USE AND MANAGEMENT OF INTERNET 
              OF THINGS DEVICES.

    (a) Revisions to the Federal Acquisition Regulation.--Not later 
than 180 days after the date on which the Director of the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology completes the development of the 
recommendations required under section 3(b), the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget shall issue guidelines for each agency that 
are consistent with such recommendations.
    (b) Requirement.--In issuing the guidelines required under 
subsection (a), the Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
shall ensure that the guidelines are consistent with the information 
security requirements in subchapter II of chapter 35 of title 44, 
United States Code.
    (c) Quinquennial Reviews and Revisions.--Not less frequently than 
once every 5 years--
            (1) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and 
        the Director of the National Institute of Standards and 
        Technology shall review the policies issued under subsection 
        (a); and
            (2) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
        shall, in consultation with the Director of the National 
        Institute of Standards and Technology, revise such policies.

SEC. 5. NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY GUIDANCE ON 
              COORDINATED DISCLOSURE OF SECURITY VULNERABILITIES 
              RELATING TO INTERNET OF THINGS DEVICES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology shall, in consultation with such cybersecurity 
researchers and private-sector industry experts as the Director 
considers appropriate, publish guidance on policies and procedures for 
the reporting, coordinating, publishing, and receiving of information 
about--
            (1) a security vulnerability relating to a covered device 
        used by the Federal Government; and
            (2) the resolution of such security vulnerability.
    (b) Elements.--The guidance published under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) Policies and procedures described in subsection (a) 
        that, to the maximum extent practicable, are aligned with 
        Standards 29147 and 30111 of the International Standards 
        Organization, or any successor standards. Such policies and 
        procedures shall include policies and procedures for a 
        contractor or vendor providing a covered device to the Federal 
        Government on--
                    (A) receiving information about a potential 
                security vulnerability relating to the covered device; 
                and
                    (B) disseminating information about the resolution 
                of a security vulnerability relating to the covered 
                device.
            (2) Guidance, including example content, on the information 
        items that should be produced through the implementation of the 
        security vulnerability disclosure process of the contractor.

SEC. 6. GUIDELINES FOR FEDERAL AGENCIES ON COORDINATED DISCLOSURE OF 
              SECURITY VULNERABILITIES RELATING TO INTERNET OF THINGS 
              DEVICES.

    (a) Agency Guidelines Required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date on which the guidance required under section 4 is published, the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall, in consultation 
with the Administrator of the General Services Administration, issue 
guidelines for each agency on reporting, coordinating, publishing, and 
receiving information about--
            (1) a security vulnerability relating to a covered device 
        used by the agency; and
            (2) the resolution of such security vulnerability.
    (b) Contractor and Vendor Compliance With National Institute of 
Standards and Technology Guidance.--The guidelines required by 
subsection (a) shall include a limitation that prohibits an agency from 
acquiring or using any covered device from a contractor or vendor if 
the contractor or vendor fails to comply with the guidance published 
under section 5(a).
    (c) Consistency With Guidance From National Institute of Standards 
and Technology.--The Director shall ensure that the guidelines issued 
under subsection (a) are consistent with the guidance published under 
section 5(a).
                                 