116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1830

To require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration 
              of the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 18, 2019

 Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York (for himself, Mr. Gallagher, Mr. 
 Cook, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. Pingree, Ms. Norton, Mr. Connolly, 
Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Sires, Mrs. 
Lowey, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Cole, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. 
    Deutch, Mr. Sablan, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Garamendi, Ms. Brownley of 
California, Mr. Collins of New York, Mr. Ryan, Mr. Himes, Ms. Kelly of 
 Illinois, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Takano, 
   Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Mr. Cooper, Mr. 
Loebsack, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. Thompson of California, Mr. 
Suozzi, Mr. Kildee, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Pallone, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. Neal, 
Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Gallego, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
 Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Correa, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
 Scott of Virginia, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Rush, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Espaillat, 
 Mr. Raskin, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Peters, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. 
  Lipinski, Mr. Higgins of New York, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Fortenberry, Mr. 
 Cartwright, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Rutherford, Miss Gonzalez-Colon 
 of Puerto Rico, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Wittman, Mr. Bacon, Mr. Payne, 
 Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Veasey, 
 Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Hudson, Mr. Graves of Missouri, Mr. Beyer, 
  Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, Mrs. Demings, 
    Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Ms. Meng, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. 
    Huffman, Mr. Engel, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Norcross, Mr. 
   Kinzinger, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. 
Moulton, Mr. Marshall, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Price of 
   North Carolina, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Kind, Mr. 
Vargas, Mr. Bera, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Heck, Ms. Castor 
  of Florida, Ms. Adams, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Panetta, Mr. 
    Khanna, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Tipton, Mr. Bergman, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
 Peterson, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. McEachin, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, 
 Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Larsen of Washington, 
Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Posey, Mr. Cohen, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. 
 Hunter, Ms. Barragan, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Katko, Mr. Gottheimer, 
 Mr. Meadows, Mr. Norman, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Soto, Ms. Moore, Mr. LaMalfa, 
    Mr. Hastings, Mr. Crist, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Costa, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. 
Shimkus, Mr. Rose of New York, Mr. Morelle, Mr. Rouda, Mr. Delgado, Ms. 
Wild, Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. Cisneros, Mr. Vela, Mr. Baird, Mr. 
Mast, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Gonzalez of Ohio, Mr. Brindisi, Mr. McKinley, Mr. 
Weber of Texas, Mr. Babin, Mr. Lamborn, and Mr. Smucker) introduced the 
   following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Financial 
                                Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration 
              of the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Purple Heart Hall of Honor 
Commemorative Coin Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) The National Purple Heart Hall of Honor's mission is--
                    (A) to commemorate the extraordinary sacrifice of 
                America's servicemen and servicewomen who were killed 
                or wounded by enemy action; and
                    (B) to collect and preserve the stories of Purple 
                Heart recipients from all branches of service and 
                across generations to ensure that all recipients are 
                represented.
            (2) The National Purple Heart Hall of Honor first opened 
        its doors on November 10, 2006, in New Windsor, NY.
            (3) The National Purple Heart Hall of Honor is co-located 
        with the New Windsor Cantonment State Historic Site.
            (4) The National Purple Heart Hall of Honor is the first to 
        recognize the estimated 1.8 million U.S. servicemembers wounded 
        or killed in action representing recipients from the Civil War 
        to the present day, serving as a living memorial to their 
        sacrifice by sharing their stories through interviews, exhibits 
        and the Roll of Honor, an interactive computer database of each 
        recipient enrolled.

SEC. 3. COIN SPECIFICATIONS.

    (a) Denominations.--The Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in 
this Act referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall mint and issue the 
following coins:
            (1) $5 gold coins.--Not more than 50,000 $5 coins, which 
        shall--
                    (A) weigh 8.359 grams;
                    (B) have a diameter of 0.850 inches; and
                    (C) contain 90 percent gold and 10 percent alloy.
            (2) $1 silver coins.--Not more than 400,000 $1 coins, which 
        shall--
                    (A) weigh 26.73 grams;
                    (B) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
                    (C) contain not less than 90 percent silver.
            (3) Half-dollar clad coins.--Not more than 750,000 half-
        dollar coins which shall--
                    (A) weigh 11.34 grams;
                    (B) have a diameter of 1.205 inches; and
                    (C) be minted to the specifications for half-dollar 
                coins contained in section 5112(b) of title 31, United 
                States Code.
    (b) Legal Tender.--The coins minted under this Act shall be legal 
tender, as provided in section 5103 of title 31, United States Code.
    (c) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of section 5134 of title 31, 
United States Code, all coins minted under this Act shall be considered 
to be numismatic items.

SEC. 4. DESIGN OF COINS.

    (a) Design Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--The design of the coins minted under this 
        Act shall be emblematic of the National Purple Heart Hall of 
        Honor.
            (2) Designation and inscriptions.--On each coin minted 
        under this Act there shall be--
                    (A) a designation of the value of the coin;
                    (B) an inscription of the year ``2021''; and
                    (C) inscriptions of the words ``Liberty'', ``In God 
                We Trust'', ``United States of America'', and ``E 
                Pluribus Unum''.
    (b) Selection.--The design for the coins minted under this Act 
shall be--
            (1) selected by the Secretary after consultation with the 
        Commission of Fine Arts and the National Purple Heart Hall of 
        Honor, Inc.; and
            (2) reviewed by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee.

SEC. 5. ISSUANCE OF COINS.

    (a) Quality of Coins.--Coins minted under this Act shall be issued 
in uncirculated and proof qualities.
    (b) Mint Facility.--Only the West Point Mint may be used to strike 
any particular quality of the coins minted under this Act.
    (c) Period for Issuance.--The Secretary may issue coins minted 
under this Act only during the 1-year period beginning on January 1, 
2021.

SEC. 6. SALE OF COINS.

    (a) Sale Price.--The coins issued under this Act shall be sold by 
the Secretary at a price equal to the sum of--
            (1) the face value of the coins;
            (2) the surcharge provided in section 7(a) with respect to 
        such coins; and
            (3) the cost of designing and issuing the coins (including 
        labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses, 
        marketing, and shipping).
    (b) Bulk Sales.--The Secretary shall make bulk sales of the coins 
issued under this Act at a reasonable discount.
    (c) Prepaid Orders.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall accept prepaid orders 
        for the coins minted under this Act before the issuance of such 
        coins.
            (2) Discount.--Sale prices with respect to prepaid orders 
        under paragraph (1) shall be at a reasonable discount.

SEC. 7. SURCHARGES.

    (a) In General.--All sales of coins issued under this Act shall 
include a surcharge of--
            (1) $35 per coin for the $5 coin;
            (2) $10 per coin for the $1 coin; and
            (3) $5 per coin for the half-dollar coin.
    (b) Distribution.--Subject to section 5134(f)(1) of title 31, 
United States Code, all surcharges received by the Secretary from the 
sale of coins issued under this Act shall be promptly paid by the 
Secretary to the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor, Inc., to support 
the mission of the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor, Inc., including 
capital improvements to the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor 
facilities.
    (c) Audits.--The National Purple Heart Hall of Honor, Inc., shall 
be subject to the audit requirements of section 5134(f)(2) of title 31, 
United States Code, with regard to the amounts received under 
subsection (b).
    (d) Limitation.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), no surcharge may 
be included with respect to the issuance under this Act of any coin 
during a calendar year if, as of the time of such issuance, the 
issuance of such coin would result in the number of commemorative coin 
programs issued during such year to exceed the annual 2 commemorative 
coin program issuance limitation under section 5112(m)(1) of title 31, 
United States Code (as in effect on the date of the enactment of this 
Act). The Secretary of the Treasury may issue guidance to carry out 
this subsection.
                                 