116th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3312

    To establish a crisis stabilization and community reentry grant 
                    program, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           February 13, 2020

 Mr. Cornyn (for himself and Mr. Blumenthal) introduced the following 
    bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on the 
                               Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To establish a crisis stabilization and community reentry grant 
                    program, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Crisis Stabilization and Community 
Reentry Act of 2020''.

SEC. 2. MENTAL HEALTH CRISIS STABILIZATION.

    (a) Planning and Implementation Grants.--Title I of the Omnibus 
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10101 et seq.) is 
amended by inserting after part NN the following:

     ``PART OO--CRISIS STABILIZATION AND COMMUNITY REENTRY PROGRAM.

``SEC. 3051. GRANT AUTHORIZATION.

    ``(a) In General.--The Attorney General may make grants under this 
part to States, for use by State and local correctional facilities, for 
the purpose of providing clinical services for people with serious 
mental illness that establish treatment, suicide prevention, and 
continuity of recovery in the community upon release from the 
correctional facility.
    ``(b) Use of Funds.--A grant awarded under this part shall be used 
to support--
            ``(1) programs involving criminal and juvenile justice 
        agencies, mental health agencies, and community-based 
        behavioral health providers that improve clinical stabilization 
        during incarceration and continuity of care leading to recovery 
        in the community by providing services and supports that may 
        include peer support services, enrollment in health care, and 
        introduction to long-acting injectable medications or, as 
        clinically indicated, other medications, by--
                    ``(A) providing training and education for criminal 
                and juvenile justice agencies, mental health agencies, 
                and community-based behavioral health providers on 
                interventions that support--
                            ``(i) engagement in recovery supports and 
                        services;
                            ``(ii) access to medication while in an 
                        incarcerated setting; and
                            ``(iii) continuity of care during reentry 
                        into the community;
                    ``(B) ensuring that offenders with serious mental 
                illness are provided appropriate access to evidence-
                based recovery supports that may include peer support 
                services, medication (including long-acting injectable 
                medications where clinically appropriate), and psycho-
                social therapies;
                    ``(C) offering technical assistance to criminal 
                justice agencies on how to modify their administrative 
                and clinical processes to accommodate evidence-based 
                interventions, such as long-acting injectable 
                medications and other recovery supports; and
                    ``(D) participating in data collection activities 
                specified by the Attorney General, in consultation with 
                the Secretary of Health and Human Services;
            ``(2) programs that support cooperative efforts between 
        criminal and juvenile justice agencies, mental health agencies, 
        and community-based behavioral health providers to establish or 
        enhance serious mental illness recovery support by--
                    ``(A) strengthening or establishing crisis response 
                services delivered by hotlines, mobile crisis teams, 
                crisis stabilization and triage centers, peer support 
                specialists, public safety officers, community-based 
                behavioral health providers, and other stakeholders, 
                including by providing technical support for 
                interventions that promote long-term recovery;
                    ``(B) engaging criminal and juvenile justice 
                agencies, mental health agencies and community-based 
                behavioral health providers, preliminary qualified 
                offenders, and family and community members in program 
                design, program implementation, and training on crisis 
                response services, including connection to recovery 
                services and supports;
                    ``(C) examining health care reimbursement issues 
                that may pose a barrier to ensuring the long-term 
                financial sustainability of crisis response services 
                and interventions that promote long-term engagement 
                with recovery services and supports; and
                    ``(D) participating in data collection activities 
                specified by the Attorney General, in consultation with 
                the Secretary of Health and Human Services; and
            ``(3) programs that provide training and additional 
        resources to criminal and juvenile justice agencies, mental 
        health agencies, and community-based behavioral health 
        providers on serious mental illness, suicide prevention 
        strategies, recovery engagement strategies, and the special 
        health and social needs of justice-involved individuals who are 
        living with serious mental illness.
    ``(c) Consultation.--The Attorney General shall consult with the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services to ensure that serious mental 
illness treatment and recovery support services provided under this 
grant program incorporate evidence-based approaches that facilitate 
long-term engagement in recovery services and supports.

``SEC. 3052. STATE APPLICATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--To request a grant under this part, the chief 
executive of a State shall submit an application to the Attorney 
General--
            ``(1) in such form and containing such information as the 
        Attorney General may reasonably require;
            ``(2) that includes assurances that Federal funds received 
        under this part shall be used to supplement, not supplant, non-
        Federal funds that would otherwise be available for activities 
        funded under this part; and
            ``(3) that describes the coordination between State 
        criminal and juvenile justice agencies, mental health agencies 
        and community-based behavioral health providers, preliminary 
        qualified offenders, and family and community members in--
                    ``(A) program design;
                    ``(B) program implementation; and
                    ``(C) training on crisis response, medication 
                adherence, and continuity of recovery in the community.
    ``(b) Eligibility for Preference With Community Care Component.--
            ``(1) In general.--In awarding grants under this part, the 
        Attorney General shall give preference to a State that ensures 
        that individuals who participate in a program, funded by a 
        grant under this part will be provided with continuity of care, 
        in accordance with paragraph (2), in a community care provider 
        program upon release from a correctional facility.
            ``(2) Requirements.--For purposes of paragraph (1), the 
        continuity of care shall involve the coordination of the 
        correctional facility treatment program with qualified 
        community behavioral health providers and other recovery 
        supports, parole supervision programs, halfway house programs, 
        and participation in peer recovery group programs, which may 
        aid in ongoing recovery after the individual is released from 
        the correctional facility.
            ``(3) Community care provider program defined.--For 
        purposes of this subsection, the term `community care provider 
        program' means a community mental health center or certified 
        community behavioral health clinic that directly provides to an 
        individual, or assists in connecting an individual to the 
        provision of, appropriate community-based treatment, medication 
        management, and other recovery supports, when the individual 
        leaves a correctional facility at the end of a sentence or on 
        parole.
    ``(c) Coordination of Federal Assistance.--Each application 
submitted for a grant under this part shall include a description of 
how the funds made available under this part will be coordinated with 
Federal assistance for behavioral health services currently provided by 
the Department of Health and Human Services' Substance Abuse and Mental 
Health Services Administration.

``SEC. 3053. REVIEW OF STATE APPLICATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Attorney General shall make a grant under 
section 3051 to carry out the projects described in the application 
submitted under section 3052 upon determining that--
            ``(1) the application is consistent with the requirements 
        of this part; and
            ``(2) before the approval of the application, the Attorney 
        General has made an affirmative finding in writing that the 
        proposed project has been reviewed in accordance with this 
        part.
    ``(b) Approval.--Each application submitted under section 3052 
shall be considered approved, in whole or in part, by the Attorney 
General not later than 90 days after first received, unless the 
Attorney General informs the applicant of specific reasons for 
disapproval.
    ``(c) Restriction.--Grant funds received under this part shall not 
be used for land acquisition or construction projects.
    ``(d) Disapproval Notice and Reconsideration.--The Attorney General 
may not disapprove any application without first affording the 
applicant reasonable notice and an opportunity for reconsideration.

``SEC. 3054. EVALUATION.

    ``Each State that receives a grant under this part shall submit to 
the Attorney General an evaluation not later than March 1 of each year 
in such form and containing such information as the Attorney General, 
in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, may 
reasonably require.

``SEC. 3055. AUTHORIZATION OF FUNDING.

    ``For purposes of carrying out this part, the Attorney General is 
authorized to award not more than $10,000,000 of funds appropriated to 
the Department of Justice for State and local law enforcement 
activities for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2025.''.
    (b) National Criminal Justice and Mental Health Training and 
Technical Assistance.--Section 2992(c)(3) of title I of the Omnibus 
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10652(c)(3)) is 
amended by inserting before the semicolon at the end the following: ``, 
which may include interventions designed to enhance access to 
medication.''.
                                 