116th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2683

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
   To establish a task force to assist States in implementing hiring 
   requirements for child care staff members to improve child safety.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Child Care Protection Improvement 
Act of 2020''.

SEC. 2. TASK FORCE TO ASSIST IN IMPROVING CHILD SAFETY.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established a task force, to be known 
as the Interagency Task Force for Child Safety (referred to in this 
section as the ``Task Force'') to identify, evaluate, and recommend 
best practices and technical assistance to assist Federal and State 
agencies in fully implementing the requirements of section 658H(b) of 
the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
9858f(b)) for child care staff members.
    (b) Composition.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the President shall appoint the members of the 
Task Force, which shall--
            (1) consist of only Federal officers and employees; and
            (2) include--
                    (A) the Director of the Office of Child Care of the 
                Department of Health and Human Services (or the 
                Director's designee), the Associate Commissioner of the 
                Children's Bureau of the Department of Health and Human 
                Services (or the Associate Commissioner's designee), 
                and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
                (or the Director's designee); and
                    (B) such other Federal officers and employees (or 
                their designees) as may be appointed by the President.
    (c) Chairperson.--The chairperson of the Task Force shall be the 
Assistant Secretary of the Administration for Children and Families of 
the Department of Health and Human Services.
    (d) Consultation.--The Task Force shall consult with 
representatives from State child care agencies, State child protective 
services, State criminal justice agencies, providers of child care 
services, including providers in the private sector, and other relevant 
stakeholders on identifying problems in implementing, and proposing 
solutions to implement, the requirements of section 658H(b) of the 
Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990, as described in 
that section. Such consultation shall include consultation with State 
agencies that are at different stages of such implementation.
    (e) Task Force Duties.--The Task Force shall--
            (1) develop recommendations for improving implementation of 
        the requirements of section 658H(b) of the Child Care and 
        Development Block Grant Act of 1990, including recommendations 
        about how the Task Force and member agencies will collaborate 
        and coordinate efforts to implement such requirements, as 
        described in that section; and
            (2) develop recommendations in which the Task Force 
        identifies best practices and evaluates technical assistance to 
        assist relevant Federal and State agencies in implementing 
        section 658H(b) of the Child Care and Development Block Grant 
        Act of 1990, which identification and evaluation shall 
        include--
                    (A) an analysis of available research and 
                information at the Federal and State levels regarding 
                the status of the interstate requirements of that 
                section for child care staff members who have resided 
                in one or more States during the previous 5 years and 
                who seek employment in a child care program in a 
                different State;
                    (B) a list of State agencies that are not 
                responding to interstate requests covered by that 
                section for relevant information on child care staff 
                members;
                    (C) identification of the challenges State agencies 
                are experiencing in responding to such interstate 
                requests;
                    (D) an analysis of the length of time it takes the 
                State agencies in a State to receive such results from 
                State agencies in another State in response to such an 
                interstate request, in accordance with that section;
                    (E) an analysis of the average processing time for 
                the interstate requests, in accordance with that 
                section;
                    (F) identification of any fees (and entities 
                responsible for paying any such fees) associated with 
                the interstate requests in each State to meet 
                requirements, in accordance with section 658H of the 
                Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 (42 
                U.S.C. 9858f), including identification of--
                            (i) the extent to which such fees are 
                        consistent with subsection (f) of that section; 
                        and
                            (ii) information regarding factors that 
                        impact such fees;
                    (G) a list of States that are participating in the 
                National Fingerprint File program, as administered by 
                the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and an analysis of 
                reasons States have or have not chosen to participate 
                in the program, including barriers to participation 
                such as barriers related to State regulatory 
                requirements and statutes; and
                    (H) a list of States that have closed record laws 
                or systems that prevent the States from sharing 
                complete criminal records data or information with 
                State agencies in another State.
    (f) Meetings.--Not later than 3 months after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Task Force shall hold its first meeting.
    (g) Final Report.--Not later than 1 year after the first meeting of 
the Task Force, the Task Force shall submit to the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services, the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions of the Senate, and the Committee on Education and Labor of the 
House of Representatives a final report containing all of the 
recommendations required by paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (e). 
The report shall also include a list of the members of the Task Force, 
the agencies such members represent, and the individuals and entities 
with whom the Task Force consulted under subsection (d).
    (h) No Compensation for Members.--A member of the Task Force shall 
serve without compensation in addition to any compensation received for 
the service of the member as an officer or employee of the United 
States.
    (i) Exemption From FACA.--The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 
U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Task Force.
    (j) Sunset.--The Task Force shall terminate 1 year after submitting 
its final report under subsection (g), but not later than the end of 
fiscal year 2021.

            Passed the Senate March 5, 2020.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
116th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2683

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

   To establish a task force to assist States in implementing hiring 
   requirements for child care staff members to improve child safety.
