116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 893

 To require the President to develop a strategy to ensure the security 
of next generation mobile telecommunications systems and infrastructure 
  in the United States and to assist allies and strategic partners in 
 maximizing the security of next generation mobile telecommunications 
     systems, infrastructure, and software, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 27, 2019

Mr. Cornyn (for himself, Mr. Burr, Mr. Warner, Ms. Collins, Mr. Rubio, 
 Mr. Bennet, Mr. Cotton, and Mrs. Feinstein) introduced the following 
 bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Commerce, 
                      Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require the President to develop a strategy to ensure the security 
of next generation mobile telecommunications systems and infrastructure 
  in the United States and to assist allies and strategic partners in 
 maximizing the security of next generation mobile telecommunications 
     systems, infrastructure, and software, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Secure 5G and Beyond Act of 2019''.

SEC. 2. STRATEGY TO ENSURE SECURITY OF NEXT GENERATION MOBILE 
              TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS AND INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on 
        Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the Committee on Foreign 
        Relations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee 
        on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; 
        and
            (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the 
        Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Foreign 
        Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on 
        Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.
    (b) Strategy Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the President, in consultation with the 
Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, the Administrator of 
the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, the 
Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of National Intelligence, 
the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Defense, shall develop and 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a strategy--
            (1) to ensure the security of 5th and future generations 
        mobile telecommunications systems and infrastructure within the 
        United States;
            (2) to assist mutual defense treaty allies of the United 
        States, strategic partners of the United States, and other 
        countries, when in the security interests of the United States, 
        in maximizing the security of 5th and future generations mobile 
        telecommunications systems and infrastructure inside their 
        countries; and
            (3) to protect the competitiveness of United States 
        companies, privacy of United States consumers, and integrity of 
        standards setting bodies against political influence.
    (c) Designation.--The strategy developed under subsection (b) shall 
be known as the ``Secure Next Generation Mobile Communications 
Strategy''.
    (d) Elements.--The strategy required by subsection (b) shall 
represent a whole-of-government approach and shall include the 
following:
            (1) A description of United States national and economic 
        security interests pertaining to the deployment of 5th and 
        future generations mobile telecommunications systems and 
        infrastructure.
            (2) An identification and assessment of potential security 
        threats and vulnerabilities to the infrastructure, equipment, 
        systems, software, and virtually defined networks that support 
        5th and future generations mobile telecommunications systems 
        and infrastructure.
            (3) A list of available domestic suppliers of 5th and 
        future generations telecommunications equipment and other 
        suppliers in countries that are mutual defense allies or 
        strategic partners of the United States and a strategy to 
        assess their ability to produce and supply 5th generation and 
        future generations telecommunications systems and 
        infrastructure.
            (4) Identification of trusted supplier entities from both 
        inside and outside the United States that are capable of 
        producing and supplying to private industry infrastructure and 
        systems equipment supporting 5th and future generations mobile 
        telecommunications systems and infrastructure.
            (5) Identification of where security gaps exist in the 
        United States domestic or mutual defense treaty allies and 
        strategic partners telecommunications equipment supply chain 
        for 5th and future generations infrastructure and systems 
        equipment.
            (6) Identification of incentives and policy options to help 
        close or narrow such security gaps in the United States 
        domestic industrial base, including research and development in 
        critical technologies and workforce development in new 
        generation technologies.
            (7) Identification of incentives and policy options for 
        leveraging the telecommunications equipment suppliers from 
        mutual defense treaty allies, strategic partners, and other 
        countries to ensure that private industry in the United States 
        has adequate sources for secure, effective, and reliable 5th 
        and future generations mobile telecommunications systems and 
        infrastructure equipment.
            (8) A strategy for diplomatic engagement with mutual 
        defense treaty allies, strategic partners, and other countries 
        to share security risk information and findings pertaining to 
        5th and future generations mobile telecommunications systems 
        and infrastructure equipment and cooperation on mitigating 
        those risks.
            (9) A strategy for engagements with private sector 
        telecommunications infrastructure and systems equipment 
        developers to share information and findings on 5th and future 
        generations mobile telecommunication systems and infrastructure 
        equipment standards to secure platforms.
            (10) A strategy for diplomatic engagements with mutual 
        defense treaty allies, strategic partners, and other countries 
        to share information and findings on 5th and future generations 
        mobile telecommunication systems and infrastructure equipment 
        standards and standards setting bodies to promote maximum 
        interoperability, competitiveness, openness, and secure 
        platforms.
            (11) A strategy for joint testing environments with mutual 
        defense treaty allies, strategic partners, and other countries 
        to ensure a trusted marketplace for 5th and future generations 
        mobile telecommunication systems and infrastructure equipment.
            (12) A strategy for research and development by the Federal 
        Government, in close partnership with trusted supplier 
        entities, mutual defense treaty allies, strategic partners, and 
        other countries to reach and maintain United States leadership 
        in 5th and future generations communications security, 
        including the development of an ongoing monitoring capability 
        of 5th and future generations telecommunications systems for 
        security vulnerabilities.
            (13) Options for identifying and helping to mitigate the 
        security risks of 5th and future generations telecommunications 
        systems and infrastructure equipment with security flaws or 
        vulnerabilities or equipment sourced from countries of concern 
        that have already been put in place within mutual defense 
        treaty allies, strategic partners, and other countries, when in 
        the security interests of the United States.
            (14) A description of the appropriate roles and missions of 
        the Federal Communications Commission, the National 
        Telecommunications and Information Administration, the 
        Department of Homeland Security, the intelligence community, 
        the Department of Justice, and the Department of Defense in 
        executing the strategy.
            (15) Development of a plan that includes interagency 
        mechanisms for the National Telecommunications and Information 
        Administration to act as the executive agent to coordinate 
        implementation of the strategy.
            (16) An identification of the key diplomatic, development, 
        intelligence, military, and economic resources necessary to 
        implement the strategy, including specific budgetary requests.
            (17) A description of such legislative or administrative 
        action as may be necessary to carry out the strategy.
    (e) Limitation.--The strategy required by subsection (b) shall not 
include a recommendation or a proposal to Federalize 5th or future 
generations mobile telecommunications systems or infrastructure.
    (f) Briefing.--Not later than 14 days after the date on which the 
strategy required by subsection (b) is completed, the President's 
designee shall provide to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
briefing on the implementation of the strategy.
    (g) Implementation.--The National Telecommunications and 
Information Administration shall act as the executive agent to 
coordinate implementation of the strategy, and keep congressional 
committees apprised of progress on implementation.
    (h) Form.--The strategy submitted under subsection (b) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                                 