116th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 1014

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
    To establish the Route 66 Centennial Commission, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Route 66 Centennial Commission 
Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) Route 66 was the first all-weather highway in the 
        United States connecting the Midwest to California, and has 
        played a major role in the history of the United States;
            (2) Route 66 has become a symbol of the heritage of travel 
        and the legacy of seeking a better life shared by the people of 
        the United States, and has been enshrined in the popular 
        culture of the United States; and
            (3) the year 2026 will be the centennial anniversary of 
        Route 66, and a commission should be established to study and 
        recommend in a report to Congress activities that are fitting 
        and proper to celebrate that anniversary in a manner that 
        appropriately honors the Mother Road of the United States.

SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT.

    There is established a commission to be known as the ``Route 66 
Centennial Commission'' (referred to in this Act as the 
``Commission'').

SEC. 4. DUTIES.

    The Commission shall--
            (1) study activities that may be carried out by the Federal 
        Government to determine whether the activities are fitting and 
        proper to honor Route 66 on the occasion of the centennial 
        anniversary of Route 66, including activities such as--
                    (A) the issuance of commemorative coins, medals, 
                certificates of recognition, and postage stamps;
                    (B) ceremonies and celebrations commemorating 
                specific events; and
                    (C) the production, publication, and distribution 
                of books, pamphlets, films, electronic publications, 
                and other educational materials; and
            (2) recommend to Congress--
                    (A) the activities that the Commission considers 
                most fitting and proper to honor Route 66 on the 
                occasion described in paragraph (1); and
                    (B) 1 or more entities in the Federal Government 
                that the Commission considers most appropriate to carry 
                out those activities.

SEC. 5. MEMBERSHIP.

    (a) Number and Appointment.--The Commission shall be composed of 15 
members appointed as follows:
            (1) 3 members, each of whom shall be an eligible individual 
        described in subsection (b), appointed by the President based 
        on the recommendation of the Secretary of Transportation.
            (2) 1 member, who shall be an eligible individual described 
        in subsection (b), appointed by the President based on the 
        recommendation of the Governor of Illinois.
            (3) 1 member, who shall be an eligible individual described 
        in subsection (b), appointed by the President based on the 
        recommendation of the Governor of Missouri.
            (4) 1 member, who shall be an eligible individual described 
        in subsection (b), appointed by the President based on the 
        recommendation of the Governor of Kansas.
            (5) 1 member, who shall be an eligible individual described 
        in subsection (b), appointed by the President based on the 
        recommendation of the Governor of Oklahoma.
            (6) 1 member, who shall be an eligible individual described 
        in subsection (b), appointed by the President based on the 
        recommendation of the Governor of Texas.
            (7) 1 member, who shall be an eligible individual described 
        in subsection (b), appointed by the President based on the 
        recommendation of the Governor of New Mexico.
            (8) 1 member, who shall be an eligible individual described 
        in subsection (b), appointed by the President based on the 
        recommendation of the Governor of Arizona.
            (9) 1 member, who shall be an eligible individual described 
        in subsection (b), appointed by the President based on the 
        recommendation of the Governor of California.
            (10) 1 member, who shall be an eligible individual 
        described in subsection (b), appointed by the President based 
        on the recommendation of the Speaker of the House of 
        Representatives.
            (11) 1 member, who shall be an eligible individual 
        described in subsection (b), appointed by the President based 
        on the recommendation of the Minority Leader of the House of 
        Representatives.
            (12) 1 member, who shall be an eligible individual 
        described in subsection (b), appointed by the President based 
        on the recommendation of the Majority Leader of the Senate.
            (13) 1 member, who shall be an eligible individual 
        described in subsection (b), appointed by the President based 
        on the recommendation of the Minority Leader of the Senate.
    (b) Eligible Individual.--An eligible individual referred to in 
subsection (a) is an individual with--
            (1) a demonstrated dedication to educating others about the 
        importance of historical figures and events; and
            (2) substantial knowledge and appreciation of Route 66.
    (c) Time of Appointment.--Each initial appointment of a member of 
the Commission shall be made before the expiration of the 120-day 
period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act.
    (d) Terms.--Each member shall be appointed for the life of the 
Commission.
    (e) Vacancies.--A vacancy in the Commission shall not affect the 
powers of the Commission but shall be filled in the manner in which the 
original appointment was made.
    (f) Basic Pay.--Members shall serve on the Commission without pay.
    (g) Travel Expenses.--Each member shall receive travel expenses, 
including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with sections 
5702 and 5703 of title 5, United States Code.
    (h) Quorum.--7 members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum, 
but a lesser number may hold hearings.
    (i) Chair and Vice Chair.--The Commission shall select a Chair and 
Vice Chair from among the members of the Commission.
    (j) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chair.

SEC. 6. DIRECTOR AND STAFF.

    (a) Director.--The Commission may appoint and fix the pay of a 
Director and such additional personnel as the Commission considers to 
be appropriate.
    (b) Applicability of Certain Civil Service Laws.--
            (1) Director.--The Director of the Commission shall--
                    (A) be appointed without regard to the provisions 
                of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments 
                in the competitive service; and
                    (B) be paid without regard to the provisions of 
                chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, 
                United States Code, relating to classification and 
                General Schedule pay rates, except that the rate of pay 
                for the Director may not exceed the rate payable for 
                level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 
                of that title.
            (2) Staff.--The staff of the Commission shall--
                    (A) be appointed without regard to the provisions 
                of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments 
                in the competitive service; and
                    (B) be paid without regard to the provisions of 
                chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, 
                United States Code, relating to classification and 
                General Schedule pay rates.
    (c) Source of Compensation.--In accordance with section 10--
            (1) no Federal funds may be expended to compensate a 
        Director or staff member of the Commission under this section; 
        and
            (2) any compensation paid to a Director or any staff of the 
        Commission appointed under this section shall be derived solely 
        from donated funds.

SEC. 7. POWERS.

    (a) Hearings and Sessions.--The Commission may hold such hearings, 
sit and act at such times and places, take such testimony, and receive 
such evidence as the Commission considers to be appropriate to carry 
out this Act.
    (b) Powers of Members and Agents.--Any member or agent of the 
Commission may, if authorized by the Commission, take any action that 
the Commission is authorized to take under this Act.
    (c) Mails.--The Commission may use the United States mails in the 
same manner and under the same conditions as other Federal departments 
and agencies.
    (d) Administrative Support Services.--
            (1) In general.--On the request of the Commission, the 
        Administrator of General Services shall provide to the 
        Commission, on a reimbursable basis, the administrative support 
        services necessary for the Commission to carry out this Act.
            (2) Detailees.--
                    (A) Federal employees.--
                            (i) In general.--At the request of the 
                        Commission, the head of any Federal agency or 
                        department may detail to the Commission, on a 
                        reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis, any 
                        employee of the agency or department.
                            (ii) Civil service status.--The detail of 
                        an employee under clause (i) shall be without 
                        interruption or loss of civil service status or 
                        privilege.
                            (iii) No additional compensation.--A 
                        Federal employee who is detailed to the 
                        Commission under this subparagraph may not 
                        receive any additional pay, allowances, 
                        benefits, or other compensation by reason of 
                        the detail of the employee to the Commission or 
                        any services performed by the employee for the 
                        Commission.
                    (B) State employees.--The Commission may--
                            (i) accept the services of personnel 
                        detailed from a State; and
                            (ii) reimburse the State for the services 
                        of the detailed personnel.
    (e) Volunteer and Uncompensated Services.--Notwithstanding section 
1342 of title 31, United States Code, the Commission may accept and use 
such voluntary and uncompensated services as the Commission determines 
to be necessary.
    (f) Gifts.--The Commission may accept, use, and dispose of gifts, 
grants, bequests, or devises of money, services, or property from any 
public or private source for the purpose of covering the costs incurred 
by the Commission in carrying out this Act.

SEC. 8. REPORTS.

    (a) Interim Reports.--The Commission may submit to Congress such 
interim reports as the Commission considers to be appropriate.
    (b) Final Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date on which 
all members of the Commission are appointed, the Commission shall 
submit to Congress a final report containing--
            (1) a detailed statement of the findings and conclusions of 
        the Commission;
            (2) the recommendations of the Commission; and
            (3) any other information that the Commission considers to 
        be appropriate.

SEC. 9. TERMINATION.

    The Commission shall terminate on December 31, 2026.

SEC. 10. EXPENDITURES OF COMMISSION.

    (a) In General.--All expenditures of the Commission, including any 
reimbursement required under this Act, shall be made solely from 
donated funds.
    (b) No Additional Funds Authorized.--No additional funds are 
authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act.

            Passed the Senate August 10, 2020.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
116th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 1014

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

    To establish the Route 66 Centennial Commission, and for other 
                               purposes.
